2026
Undergraduate prospectus
National Senior Certificate (NSC) or
Independent Examinations Board (IEB) Certificate

1

FACULTY OF
AGRISCIENCES

Stellenbosch University Open Day:
Saturday, 15 March 2025
On our annual on-campus Open Day, we welcome Grade 11 and
12 learners, parents, teachers and guidance counsellors to the
Stellenbosch and Tygerberg campuses. Come and attend specially
prepared information sessions, exhibitions and demonstrations in
world-class facilities. Visit our beautiful campus and experience the
vibrant student communities and residences. Open Day Website: If
you cannot visit the campus, we’ve got you covered! Join us online
between 1 April and 31 July and get access to all the open day
information sessions. Stay up to date - visit www.maties.com.

Applicants who meet the minimum admission requirements are
selected according to the Faculty’s selection guidelines on
www.maties.com > Apply > Admission and selection requirements.

BAgric in Agribusiness Management (3 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 60%
- Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 50%

Consultation session
Learners are welcome to book individual face-to-face or
online appointments with a Student Recruitment Practitioner.
Appointments cover topics such as the various programmes, as
well as the prescribed process to apply to the University. Bookings:
csr@sun.ac.za / 021 808 4709.

Similar programmes: BScAgric in Agricultural Economic Analysis
and Management; BCom (Management Sciences) with focal area:
Agricultural Economics

Guidance and assessments

Career opportunities: Manager in agribusinesses, focusing on
crop or animal production. An agricultural economist at a financial
institution (feasibility studies, business plans, cash flow planning).

Learners are welcome to book individual face-to-face or online
appointments for subject choice (grade 9) or study career (grade
11 or 12) assessment and guidance. The process includes a 4-hour
psychometric assessment of personality, aptitude and interest,
followed by individual feedback and a written report. Bookings:
csr@sun.ac.za / 021 808 4709.

BScAgric in Agricultural Economics (4 years)

Admission to the university

- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 60%
- Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 50%

The university receives more applications than there are places
for. Therefore, even though you may meet the minimum admission
requirements of a programme, you are not guaranteed admission
to the programme of your choice. All the university’s programmes
are selection programmes and applicants are selected according
to the faculties’ selection guidelines on www.maties.com > Apply >
Admission and selection requirements.

Fields of study
- Agricultural Economic Analysis
- Agricultural Economic Analysis and Management
- Agricultural Economic Analysis and Management with Food 		
		 Science
- Agricultural Economics with Food Science

Basic admission requirements for university study
•
•

•
•

A National Senior Certificate (NSC) or Independent
Examinations Board (IEB) school-leaving certificate as certified
by Umalusi for admission to bachelor’s degree studies.
With the exception of School of Tomorrow matriculants and
applicants for programmes in the Faculty of Law, the university
does not require National Benchmark Tests (NBTs) for
admission to programmes in 2026.
Further specific requirements to be found under individual
programmes.
Also see the faculties’ selection guidelines on www.maties.
com > Apply > Admission and selection requirements.

Similar programme: BCom (Management Sciences) with focal
area: Agricultural Economics
Career opportunities: Researcher in macroeconomic analysis
(impact assessment and design of agricultural and food policy);
agricultural economist at a financial institution or marketing
organisation (valuations, risk analyses, business plans, cash
flow); manager and specialist at public sector or international
organisations dealing with economic development (e.g. the World
Bank). Manager of food-processing concerns.

BAgric in Agricultural Production and Management:
Elsenburg (3 years)
This programme is offered in collaboration with Elsenburg Agricultural
Training Institute. Students reside on the Elsenburg campus where
they receive all their training. For more information, phone Elsenburg
on 021 808 5451.

International applicants

- An NSC aggregate of at least 55% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 50% OR Mathematical Literacy 60%
- Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 50% OR Life Sciences
50% OR Agricultural Sciences 50%

The academic record of applicants, who apply with an international
examination qualification, will be evaluated by the Admission
Office in collaboration with Stellenbosch University International.
More information for applicants with international qualifications is
available on www. maties.com > Apply > International curricula.

Fields of study
- Animal Production
- Cellar Management
- Cellar Technology
- Extension and Animal Production
- Extension and Plant Production
- Plant Production
- Plant and Animal Production
2

BScAgric in Animal Production Systems (4 years)

BSc in Forestry (Forestry and Wood Sciences) (BScFor)
(4 years)

- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 60%
- Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 50%

- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- See additional requirements for each field of study

Field of study
- Animal Science

Fields of study
- Forestry and Natural Resources Sciences:
		 • Mathematics 60%
		 • Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 50%
- Wood and Wood Products Sciences:
		 • Mathematics 70%
		 • Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 60%

Similar programmes: Any BScAgric programme with similar
subjects; request to change after the 1st semester and/or
academic year; BAgric Agricultural Production and Management
(Elsenburg) with focal area Animal Production or Extension &
Animal Production.

Similar programmes:
Forestry and Natural Resources Sciences: BSc in Conservation
Ecology; BScAgric Plant & Soil Sciences; BSc in Earth Science
Wood and Wood Products Sciences: BEng (Industrial); BSc in
Geoinformatics

Career opportunities: Consultant, entrepreneur, manager,
technician, extension officer or production manager in animal
sciences or related industries (such as animal nutrition, meat
science, animal physiology, animal reproduction and animal
breeding and genetics), or the aquaculture industry, stock-farmer
and game farmer.

Career opportunities:
Forest and Natural Resources Sciences: Work as a forestry expert,
timber grower, environmental planner, forest researcher, forester,
extension officer or consultant, logistics manager, tree breeder,
rural development advisor and entrepreneur.
Wood and Wood Products Sciences: Work as a wood products
expert, manager in a production plant for wood products, product
development manager, quality assurance manager, consultant
and wood scientist.

BSc in Conservation Ecology (4 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 60%
- Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 50%

BScAgric in Plant and Soil Science (4 years)

Similar programmes: BSc in Biodiversity and Ecology; BScFor
(Forestry and Natural Resources Sciences)

- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 60%
- Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 50%

Career opportunities: Careers in environmental impact
assessment and monitoring, restoration ecology, conservation
biology, game farm management, ecotourism, sustainable
agriculture, forestry and organic plant management, communitybased natural resource management and research into
conservation biology.

Fields of study
- Crop Production Systems
- Crop Production Systems with Agronomy, Agricultural 		
		 Economics and Animal Science
- Crop Protection and Breeding
- Soil and Water Management

Bachelor of Data Science (BDatSci) (4 years)
This is an interfaculty programme.

Similar programmes: BScAgric Viticulture & Oenology; BSc
in Molecular Biology & Biotechnology; BSc in Biodiversity and
Ecology; BSc in Earth Science; BAgric Agricultural Production
and Management (Elsenburg) with focal area Plant Production or
Extension and Plant Production.

- An NSC aggregate of at least 80% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 80%
- Afrikaans Home Language 60% OR English Home Language 60%
OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 75% OR English First 		
Additional Language 75%

Career opportunities: Career opportunities in crop production
(agronomy, deciduous fruit, citrus, fynbos, viticulture and
greenhouse), crop protection, genetic crop improvement, and
soil and water management. Various careers in the agricultural
industry or agriculture-related industries, such as consultant,
entrepreneur, manager, extension officer, technician or
researcher.

Field of study
- Statistical Genetics
Career opportunities: Statistical genetics is the field of study
where statistical methods are used to make inferences of genetic
data. It is used in fields such as population quantitative genetics
by for example plant breeders and conservation geneticists and in
genetic epidemiology where the effects of genes on diseases are
studied.

BScAgric in Viticulture and Oenology (4 years)

BSc in Food Science (4 years)

- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 60%
- Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 50%

- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 60%
- Physical Sciences (Physics and Chemistry) 50%
Similar programmes: BSc in Dietetics; BSc in Molecular Biology
and Biotechnology; BSc in Chemistry

Similar programmes: BScAgric Plant & Soil Sciences; BSc
in Molecular Biology & Biotechnology; BAgric Agricultural
Production and Management (Elsenburg) with focal area Cellar
Management or Cellar Technology.

Career opportunities: Food scientists are employed to do quality
assurance, product development, research, technical support,
sales, purchasing and production management in the food
industry.

Career opportunities: Winemaker, viticulturist, sensory specialist,
wine biotechnologist, laboratory analyst, researcher, production
manager, marketer, technician, consultant or entrepreneur in
wine-related industries.
3

FACULTY OF
ARTS AND SOCIAL SCIENCES

Extended Curriculum Programmes (ECPs)
An ECP entails one extra year of study. Except for the BAgric in
Agricultural Production and Management (offered by Elsenburg
Agricultural Training Institute) and the BSc in Food Science all the
programmes above are also available as extended curriculum
programmes.

A National Senior Certificate (NSC) or school-leaving certificate from
the Independent Examination Board (IEB) as certified by Umalusi with
a mark of at least 4 (50%) in each of the four school subjects from this
list of school subjects: Accounting; Agricultural Sciences; Business
Studies; Consumer Studies; Dramatic Arts; Economics; Engineering
Graphics and Design; Geography; History; Information Technology;
Life Sciences; Mathematics; Mathematical Literacy; Music; Physical
Sciences; Religion Studies; Visual Arts; Languages (one language of
learning and teaching at a higher education institution and two other
recognised language subjects).

An NSC aggregate of at least 60%
(excluding Life Orientation)
English OR Afrikaans
(Home Language or First Additional Language) 50%
AND
Comply with one of the following combinations:
Combination 1
Mathematics between
55% and 59,9%
Physical Sciences
(Physics and Chemistry)
≥ 50%

Also see the Faculty’s selection guidelines on www.maties.com >
Apply > Admission and selection requirements.

Combination 2
Mathematics
≥ 60%
Physical Sciences
(Physics and Chemistry)
between 45% and 49,9%

GE N E RA L D EGR E E PR OGRA M M ES
BA in Humanities# (3 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 63% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Home Language 50%
- First Additional Language 40%
If you take Socio-Informatics as a university subject, then also:
- Mathematics 50% OR Mathematical Literacy 70%

BScFor (Wood and Wood Products Sciences):
Combination 1
Mathematics between
60% and 69,9%
Physical Sciences
(Physics and Chemistry)
≥ 60%

Combination 2
Mathematics
≥ 70%
Physical Sciences
(Physics and Chemistry)
between 55% and 59,9%

Similar programme: BA degree
Career opportunities: A choice of many subjects that focus on
either of the two routes. Further postgraduate training prepares
you for professions such as teacher, psychologist, language
practitioner, journalist and town and regional planner.
Routes: Human Thought, Language, Culture and Art; People and
Society

BA in Language and Culture# (3 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 63% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Home Language 50%
- First Additional Language 50%
Similar programmes: BA in Humanities; BA in International
Studies; BA in Political, Philosophical and Economic Studies.
Career opportunities: Careers in professions requiring expertise
in languages and culture, diplomatic service, teaching, publishing,
advertising, tourism, journalism and the translation industry.

S PEC IA L IS E D D EGR E E PR OGRA M M ES
BA in Development and the Environment# (3 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 63% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Home Language 50%
- First Additional Language 40%
If you take Socio-Informatics as a university subject, then also:
- Mathematics 50% OR Mathematical Literacy 70%
If you take Economics as a university subject, then also:
- Mathematics 60%
Similar programmes: BSc in GeoInformatics; BSc in Earth
Science; BCom (Management Sciences): Focal Area Public and
Development Management; Diploma in Sustainable Development.
Career opportunities: Career possibilities in community
development, population development, town and regional
planning, tourism, resource planning and management, and
environmental planning and management in the public and
private sectors.
4

BA in Drama and Theatre Studies (3 years)

BA in Music (3 years)

- An NSC aggregate of at least 65% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Home Language 60%
- First Additional Language 50%

-

An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
Home Language 50%
First Additional Language 40%
In the main instrument (or in singing) at least a practical standard
in classical music equivalent to the Grade VII examination and 		
theoretical knowledge equivalent to any of the examining bodies’
Grade V theory examination.
- Candidates must be available for an audition and theoretical
test at the Department of Music in Stellenbosch, where they must
demonstrate proof of the required standards. Upon receiving
your application, we send you information about the audition. 		
Further information at auditions@sun.ac.za.

Selection requirements are available at www.maties.com > Apply >
Application documents; or at akg@sun.ac.za.
Candidates must be available for auditions and/or interviews at the
Drama Department in Stellenbosch during August.
Career opportunities: This qualification equips you for a career in
the theatre and media industries, and gives you access to related
fields such as public relations, marketing, teaching and cultural
affairs.
Routes: Acting and Performance Training; Technical and
Management Training

If you take Mathematics as a university subject, then also:
- Mathematics 70%

BA in Human Resource Management# (3 years)
-

Career opportunities: Private music teacher, conductor,
performing artist or accompanist. Upon further studies musicrelated professions such as music journalist, music therapist or
high school teacher. Postgraduate studies in your chosen major
may open up other careers.

An NSC aggregate of at least 63% (excluding Life Orientation)
Home Language 50%
First Additional Language 40%
Mathematics 50% OR Mathematical Literacy 70%

Diploma in Practical Music (3 years)

Similar programmes: BCom (Management Sciences): Focal Area
Human Resource Management; BCom (Industrial Psychology)

- A National Senior Certificate with at least 40% in each of four 		
school subjects (excluding Life Orientation).
- In the main instrument (or in singing) at least a practical standard
in classical music equivalent to the Grade VII examination and 		
theoretical knowledge equivalent to any of the examining bodies’
Grade III/IV theory examination.
- Candidates must be available for an audition and theoretical
test at the Department of Music in Stellenbosch, where they must
demonstrate proof of the required standards. Upon receiving
your application, we send you information about the audition.
Further information at auditions@sun.ac.za.

Career opportunities: Development manager, human resource
manager, psychometrician, management consultant and labour
relations practitioner. Leads to postgraduate studies in Human
Resource Management or Industrial Psychology.

BA in International Studies# (3 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 63% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English Home Language 50% OR English First Additional Language
60%
Similar programmes: BA in Humanities; BA in Language and
Culture; BA in Political, Philosophical and Economic Studies; BCom
(International Business).

Career opportunities: Instrumental or singing teacher, choral
conductor, church organist, performing artist or orchestral
musician.

Career opportunities: The diplomatic service, parliament, the
National Intelligence Agency, the tourism industry, international
journalism, public liaison work, the import and export industry, and
institutions that promote commerce and investment (e.g. Wesgro),
international organisations (such as the UN, Amnesty International,
World Economic Forum).

Advanced Diploma in Practical Music (1 year)
- You must have a Diploma (Practical Music), or another qualification
in music as approved by Senate.
- You will be selected based on a selection audition. If you do not
have the necessary qualifications, you may be accepted on 		
condition that you undertake supplementary work.
- Candidates must be available for an audition at the Department
of Music in Stellenbosch, where they must demonstrate proof of
the required standards. Upon receiving your application, we send
you information about the audition. Further information at
auditions@sun.ac.za.

BA in Law (3 years)
See BA (Law) under the Faculty of Law, page 11.

Bachelor of Music (BMus) (4 years)
-

An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
Home Language 50%
First Additional Language 40%
In the main instrument (or in singing) at least a practical standard
in classical music equivalent to the Grade VII examination and 		
theoretical knowledge equivalent to any of the examining bodies’
Grade V theory examination.
- Candidates must be available for an audition and theoretical test
at the Department of Music in Stellenbosch, where candidates 		
must demonstrate proof of the required standards. Upon receiving
your application, we send you information about the audition. 		
Further information at auditions@sun.ac.za

Career opportunities: Performing artist, accompanist, music
teacher or conductor. Studies might allow admission to BMus
with specialisation in Music Education, Musical Performance
in Chamber Music or Accompaniment, Solo Singing or Solo
Performance, Musicology, Composition, Music Technology, Church
Music, Ethnomusicology or Choir Conducting.

Higher Certificate in Music (1 year)

If you take Mathematics as a university subject, then also:
- Mathematics 70%

- A National Senior Certificate
- In the main instrument (or in singing) at least a practical standard
in classical music equivalent to the Grade V/VI examination and
theoretical knowledge equivalent to any of the examining bodies’
Grade III/IV theory examination.
- Candidates must be available for an audition. Further information
at auditions@sun.ac.za.

Career opportunities: Music educator (lecturer or teacher),
performing artist, accompanist, music director, musicologist,
composer or conductor. Music-related professions such as
journalist, music arranger or music technologist.
Postgraduate fields of study: music education, performance,
chamber music/accompaniment, soloist singer/solo
instrumentalist, musicology, composition, music technology,
ethnomusicology and choral conducting.
Routes: Music Education; Musicology; Music Technology;
Performance; Composition

Career opportunities: You can add value to community music
projects. This qualification can prepare you for the Diploma in
Practical Music or one of the music degree programmes, provided
you comply with all the admission requirements.
5

FACULTY OF ECONOMIC AND
MANAGEMENT SCIENCES

BA in Political, Philosophical and Economic Studies
(PPE) (3 years)
-

An NSC aggregate of at least 63% (excluding Life Orientation)
Home Language 50%
First Additional Language 40%
Mathematics 60%

Applicants who meet the minimum admission requirements are
selected according to the Faculty’s selection guidelines on
www.maties.com > Apply > Admission and selection requirements.

Similar programme: BA in Humanities; BA in Language and
Culture; BA in International Studies; BCom (Economic Sciences);
BCom (International Business); Bachelor of Data Science (BDatSci):
Focal Area Behavioural Economics

U N D E R GRA D UATE D IPLOM A PR OG RA MME

Career opportunities: Manager, journalist, business or investment
analyst, entrepreneur, diplomat, civil servant, researcher,
consultant or academic.

Diploma in Sustainable Development (3 years)
A committee selects applicants based on a combined score. The
combined score is derived from academic merit (NSC average),
and the interest and experiences you demonstrate in key areas
(is indicated in the departmental application form). Key areas
include sustainable development, social and environmental justice,
entrepreneurial mindset, creativity and leadership. The language of
instruction is English.

Bachelor of Social Work (4 years)
100 places in the programme.
- An NSC aggregate of at least 63% (excluding Life Orientation
- Home Language 50%
- First Additional Language 50%

- An NSC aggregate of at least 55% (excluding Life Orientation)
- English Home Language 50% OR English First Additional 		
Language 60%
- Mathematics 50% OR Mathematical Literacy 60% OR
Mathematics 40% or Mathematical Literacy 50% AND 60% for 		
Business Studies or Economics or Accounting

Similar programme: BTh (Bachelor of Theology)
Career opportunities: Social workers in state departments,
non-profit organisations, facilities for persons with special needs,
schools, hospitals, occupational settings, and private practice. Can
also practice internationally.

Similar programmes: BA in Development and the Environment;
BSc in GeoInformatics; BCom (Management Sciences): Focal Area
Public and Development Management.

BA in Visual Arts (4 years)
Place for 60 students.
- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Home Language 50%
- First Additional Language 40%
- Hand in a prescribed portfolio of art by 1 September. Information is
available at www. maties.com > Apply > Application documents.

Career opportunities: The Diploma will build your entrepreneurial
and intrapreneurial competencies. Entrepreneurs are independent
thinkers who use their knowledge and skills to create employment
opportunities for themselves and others. Intrapreneurs are
innovative, action-orientated, self-motivated people who drive
positive change in organisations and companies. Job opportunities
at companies whose work aligns with the Sustainable
Development Goals.

Career opportunities: Professional fine artist, art teacher, graphic
designer, illustrator, jewellery designer and manufacturer, art critic
or art theorist.
Related professions: stage designer, book designer, curator,
museum and art gallery custodian, art dealer, art entrepreneur,
gemmologist, technical expert in sculpture, welding, casting,
lithography as well as fields such as film production, art direction,
photography and advertising.

DEGREE PROGRAMMES WITH A FOCUS
ON LAW
For admission requirements, see under the Faculty of Law on page 11.

Routes: Fine Arts; Jewellery and Metal Design; Visual
Communication Design

- BCom (Law) (3 years)
- BAccLLB (5 years)

Bachelor of Data Science (BDatSci) (4 years)
This is an interfaculty programme.

BROAD DEGREE PROGRAMMES WITH
VARIOUS CAREER FOCUSES

- An NSC aggregate of at least 80% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 80%
- Afrikaans Home Language 60% OR English Home Language 60%
OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 75% OR English First 		
Additional Language 75%

BCom (Economic Sciences) (3 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 65% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 60%
- English Home Language 50% OR Afrikaans Home Language 		
50% OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 70% OR English First
Additional Language 70%

Focal area
- Geoinformatics
Career opportunities: Geoinformatics is the science and
technology dealing with the structure and character of spatial
information, its capture, its classification and qualification, its
storage, processing, portrayal and dissemination.

To register for the Econometrics and Financial Sector focal areas,
you must have a Grade 12 Mathematics final mark of 70% or higher
as this is required for Actuarial Science 112 (a compulsory module
in these focal areas). Note that this requirement also applies to the
general Economic Sciences stream if you want to enrol for Actuarial
Science 112.

# Extended Curriculum Programmes (4 years)
Available in all programmes marked with a #. Students are selected
for the extended curriculum programmes at the discretion of the
Faculty.
6

Focal areas
- Econometrics
- Economic and Management Consultation
- Financial Sector
- Transport Economics

Information systems management: Knowledge technologies
are integrated with organisational strategies and processes to
enhance productivity, efficiency and (sometimes) innovation.
Investment Management: For those who are interested in
a career as an investment manager, investment analyst,
stockbroker, portfolio manager or asset manager at an investment
management firm, major corporation, trust, or foundation.
Logistics Management: A logistics manager plans and controls
the efficient, effective flow and storage of goods, services and
related information from the place of origin to the place of
consumption. Positions in this field include Sourcing Analyst,
Export Coordinator, Demand Planner, Contract Manager, Supply
and Logistics Manager, Project Operations Manager, and
Operations Director.
Marketing management: In this field, you will be engaged in
various marketing activities such as product decisions, price
determination, distribution, advertising and creating awareness
of products or services. Possible careers are marketing manager,
sales manager, client manager and advertising manager.
Public and development management: Management careers
in the public, non-government and development sectors such
as general, strategic, financial, personnel, project or programme
manager. Development planner, community developer or a
specialist in policy and management research and consultation.

Similar programmes: BScAgric in Agricultural Economics; BA
in Political, Philosophical and Economic Studies (PPE); BCom
(Management Sciences); BCom (Mathematical Sciences); Bachelor
of Data Science (BDatSci): Focal Area Behavioural Economics
Career opportunities: Economics allows a wide choice of
careers. Although some careers require postgraduate studies
in Economics and Econometrics, experience has shown that
undergraduate qualifications in Economics yield good returns for
careers in the business world and the public sector. In business,
microeconomics facilitates logical decision-making in the firm
while macroeconomics provides insight into the economic
environment within which the enterprise operates. Majoring
in Economics may also improve the likelihood of promotion in
government departments. Economics also creates opportunities
in teaching and is recommended for students who envisage a
career in journalism.

BCom (Management Sciences) (3 years)

BCom (Management Sciences) Extended Curriculum
Programme (ECP) (4 years)

- An NSC aggregate of at least 65% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 60%
- English Home Language 50% OR Afrikaans Home Language 		
50% OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 70% OR English First
Additional Language 70%

This programme is offered over four years. You must meet the
minimum admission requirements and you will get preference if
you also meet the socio-economic status (SES) requirements of the
University’s admission policy and the SES level determined by the
University. Approximately 100 students can be accommodated in
the programme each year.

Focal areas
- Agricultural Economics
- Business Analytics
- Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management
- Financial Management
- Financial Planning
- Human Resource Management
- Information Systems Management
- Investment Management
- Logistics and Supply Chain Management
- Marketing Management
- Public and Development Management

- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 50%
- English Home Language 50% OR Afrikaans Home Language 		
50% OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 70% OR English First
Additional Language 70%
Please note:
· Only South African citizens can register for this programme.
· If you have repeated any of your Grade 12 subjects (NSC or 		
		 equivalent curriculum) to improve your marks (either through a
		 bridging programme or in any other way), you are not allowed
		 to register in the ECP.

Similar programmes: BScAgric in Agricultural Economics;
BAgric in Agribusiness Management; BA in Development and
the Environment; BA in Human Resource Management; BCom
(Economic Sciences); BCom (Mathematical Sciences); BCom
(International Business).

BCom (Mathematical Sciences) (3 years)

Career opportunities:
Agricultural economics: Careers include entrepreneurship,
general management, financial management and logistics
management for the provision of agricultural inputs and services,
for the processing and distribution of agricultural products, and for
agricultural financing.
Business Analytics: Careers in the fields of business intelligence,
consulting, advanced analytics, research in various sectors such
as banks, retail companies and research institutions.
Entrepreneurship and innovation: This focal area teaches you
how to create your own job opportunities and make creative
contributions to other businesses. If you are interested in
becoming part of an entrepreneurial and/or innovation team of an
organisation this focal area would be of interest to you.
Financial management: Whether you consider starting your own
business or working for a big company, a sound knowledge of
financial management is essential for success. Follow a career as
an investment analyst, financial analyst, risk manager, financial
manager, financial consultant or financial adviser.
Financial Planning: This course is suitable for those interested in a
career as a professional financial planner or advisor in the financial
services industry (with an insurance company, an independent
financial services practice, or in the banking sector). It is also
intended for those interested in a career as a wealth manager,
broker, consultant, insurance specialist or customer relationship
manager.
Human resource management: This leads to non-statutory
registration as a human resource practitioner with the South
African Board for People Practices. Follow a career as a personnel
manager, market researcher, training manager, consultant
or labour relations manager. (For statutory registration as a
psychometrist or industrial psychologist, see BCom (Industrial
Psychology).)

- An NSC aggregate of at least 70% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 75%
- English Home Language 50% OR Afrikaans Home Language 		
50% OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 70% OR English First
Additional Language 70%
Focal areas
- Data Science
- Financial Risk Management
- Operations Research
Similar programmes: Bachelor of Data Science (BDatSci); BSc in
Computer Science; BEng; BSc in Physics; BSc in Mathematical
Sciences; BSc with focal area Bioinformatics and Computational
Biology, or Biomedical Mathematical Sciences.
Career opportunities:
Data Science: Data Science is an interdisciplinary field that
uses scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to
extract knowledge and insights from data in various forms, both
structured and unstructured. Artificial intelligence, machine
learning, big data - these concepts are at the core of data science.
With the deluge of data, comes the increasing need for people
to make sense of the data. Studies have shown that statistical
analysis and data acumen are some of the top skills in demand
globally at the moment, and that demand far outstrips supply.
Financial risk management: People with training in financial risk
management, mathematical statistics and financial mathematics
are appointed by large financial institutions as financial
quantitative analysts, such as financial risk managers, portfolio
managers and financial instrument dealers.
7

DEGREE PROGRAMMES FOR PROFESSIONAL
REGISTRATION

Operations research: This practice-oriented focal area finds
mathematically-based solutions for problems that have a high
degree of complexity, uncertainty and conflict in factories,
businesses, banks, and the mining and agricultural sectors.

BCom (Actuarial Science) (3 years)

BCom (International Business) (4 years)

-

A limited number of students are selected using a special selection
process. The BCom (International Business) programme is a strict
selection programme with set criteria that have to be met to
proceed from one academic year to the next. The third year includes
an international exchange semester. The language of instruction is
English.

An NSC aggregate of at least 80% (excluding Life Orientation)
Mathematics 80%
Home Language 60%
If the Home Language (in the requirement above) is not English, 		
then also English First Additional Language 75%
Similar programme: BCom (Mathematical Sciences)
Career opportunities: To become an Actuary (Fellow of the
Actuarial Society of South Africa) you need to pass the fifteen
examinations of the professional body and have sufficient
work experience. Successful university studies may result in
exemptions from many of these examinations.

- An NSC aggregate of at least 80% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 70%
- English Home Language 70% OR English First Additional 		
Language 80%
Similar programme: BCom (Management Sciences)

BCom (Industrial Psychology) (3 years)

Career opportunities: Interaction with international students and
the global marketplace prepares you for a role in international
firms as a marketing manager, financial manager, entrepreneur or
innovation manager.

- An NSC aggregate of at least 65% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 60%
- English Home Language 50% OR Afrikaans Home Language 		
50% OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 70% OR English First
Additional Language 70%

Bachelor of Data Science (BDatSci) (4 years)

Similar programmes: BCom (Management Sciences): Focal Area
Human Resource Management. A BA degree with Psychology and
Industrial Psychology up to third-year level.

This is an interfaculty programme.
- An aggregate of at least 80% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 80%
- Afrikaans Home Language 60% OR English Home Language 60%
OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 75% OR English First 		
Additional Language 75%

Career opportunities: Statutory registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a psychometrist
(independent practice) is possible after obtaining the BCom
(Industrial Psychology) and BComHons (Industrial Psychology)
degrees, an internship of six months and passing a professional
board exam. Statutory registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Psychometrist or Industrial
Psychologist is possible after further studies, an internship and
passing the relevant professional board exam.

Focal areas
- Analytics and Optimisation
- Behavioural Economics
- Statistical Learning
Similar programme: BCom (Mathematical Sciences) Focal Area:
Data Science

BAcc (3 years)

Career opportunities:
Analytics and Optimisation: Operations research is an analytical
approach to data-driven problem-solving and decision-making.
Problems are broken down into basic components and then
solved in defined steps by mathematical methods. Operations
researchers use mathematical optimisation to determine the best
performance under the given circumstances. They use simulation
to experiment and test solutions before implementing them
and analytics to uncover risks and helpful insights, and to make
reliable predictions.
The techniques presented in this focal area give data scientists a
unique edge in finding optimal solutions to real-world problems,
and they open doors to careers in areas like business analysis and
consulting.
Behavioural Economics: Data scientists often work with data that
capture aspects of human behaviour and reflect decisions made
by investors, consumers, workers, politicians, companies and
managers. Behavioural economics investigates how psychological
and economic factors affect these decisions. This focal area will
equip you with the skills, models and theories to understand,
predict and influence human behaviour.
Statistical Learning: In almost all environments, decision-making
is driven by massive amounts of data, which means that there
is a dire need for skilled individuals who can make sense of this
data deluge. In general, data science entails the gathering and
storage of data, the transformation and graphical representation
of data and the analysis of data to make predictions or inferences.
The statistical learning focal area entails identifying trends and
patterns in data and using these to construct statistical models,
which can be used to predict or classify. This is an important task
across all industries, meaning that individuals with these particular
skills can work on solving real-world problems found in a variety
of domains.

- An NSC aggregate of at least 70% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 70% OR Mathematics 60% and Accounting 70%
- English Home Language 50% OR Afrikaans Home Language 		
50% OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 70% OR English First
Additional Language 70%
Please note: This programme is presented in English and
Afrikaans. For the first-year modules there are separate Afrikaans
and English groups. In later study years some modules are
presented in English with simultaneous interpreting in Afrikaans.
Similar programmes: BCom (Financial Accounting) or BCom
(Management Accounting)
Career opportunities: The BAcc degree is your first step
towards becoming a Chartered Accountant. To obtain the
professional qualification of Chartered Accountant, you must
pass the examinations of the South African Institute of Chartered
Accountants (SAICA) and/or the Independent Regulatory Board
for Auditors (IRBA). A chartered accountant can work as an auditor
for an auditing firm. This profession has statutory protection. Other
jobs in financial management, management accounting or tax
consulting may also be considered.

8

FACULTY OF
EDUCATION

BCom (Management Accounting) (3 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 65% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 60%
- English Home Language 50% OR Afrikaans Home Language 		
50% OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 70% OR English First
Additional Language 70%

Applicants who meet the minimum admission requirements are
selected according to the Faculty’s selection guidelines on
www.maties.com > Apply > Admission and selection requirements.

Similar programmes: BAcc; BCom (Financial Accounting)

Admission and selection

Career opportunities: To obtain the internationally recognised
professional qualification of chartered management accountant,
you must pass the examinations of the Chartered Institute
of Management Accountants (CIMA, London). Chartered
management accountants focus on financial competencies and
interpret and use financial information in the management of a
business.

- An aggregate of at least 60% for the NSC, IEB or an equivalent 		
school-leaving certificate (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 40% OR Mathematical Literacy 60%
AND
Learners who were taught in English:
- English Home Language 60%
- Afrikaans OR isiXhosa (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
OR
Learners who were taught in Afrikaans:
- Afrikaans Home Language 60%
- English OR isiXhosa (Home Language or First Additional Language)
50%
OR
Learners who were taught in isiXhosa:
- IsiXhosa Home Language 60%
- English OR Afrikaans (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%

BCom (Financial Accounting) (3 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 65% (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 60%
- English Home Language 50% OR Afrikaans Home Language 		
50% OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 70% OR English First
Additional Language 70%
Similar programmes: BAcc; BCom (Management Accounting)
Career opportunities: To obtain the internationally recognised
professional qualification of chartered certified accountant, you
must pass the examinations of the Association of Chartered
Certified Accountants (ACCA, London). Certified accountants
prepare financial statements, do internal auditing and give advice
on business and taxation matters.

BEd (Intermediate Phase Education): Further requirements depend on
the school subjects that you want to teach.

BEd (Foundation Phase Education) (4 years)
125 places in the programme.
Career opportunities: Teacher for Grades R to 3. Postgraduate
Studies: See the Education yearbook on the website
www.sun.ac.za.

BEd (Intermediate Phase Education) (4 years)
125 places in the programme.
Mathematics (Ed) is compulsory (in the first year), and you may
choose two additional teaching subjects from the following teaching
modules (note the additional admission requirements for some
teaching modules):
- Mathematics (pass with 60% average in the first year)
- Life Skills
- Natural Sciences (Ed)
• Life Sciences or Physical Sciences 50%
- Social Sciences (Ed)
• History or Geography 50%
Career opportunities: Primary school teacher for Grades 4 to 7
with the competence to teach two intermediate school subjects
and two languages. Postgraduate Studies: See the Education
yearbook on the website www.sun.ac.za.

Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) (1 year)
(full time on campus)
Two subjects as teaching modules are required for admission. Each
teaching subject must meet the entry requirements of the specific
teaching subject. All teaching modules are not available every year:
a minimum number of students per teaching module is required.
- Entry requirement: a degree NQF level 7 with two teaching 		
subjects.
- For the PGCE teaching modules and their requirements, see the 		
Faculty of Education yearbook on the website www.sun.ac.za.
Career opportunities: High school teacher in two subjects (Grades
8 to 12).
9

FACULTY OF
ENGINEERING

BEng (Electrical and Electronic) (4 years)
Similar programmes: BEng (Mechatronics) – both fields involve
the integration of electrical systems, control and computer
systems; BEng (Mechanical) – several areas of overlap, particularly
in today’s technology driven world, like control systems,
automation, and power systems

Applicants who meet the minimum admission requirements are
selected according to the Faculty’s selection guidelines on
www.maties.com > Apply > Admission and selection requirements.

Career opportunities: Electrical engineers are responsible for the
generation, transmission and conversion of electrical energy for
example factories and municipalities. Electronic engineers focus
on the control of robotic systems; the collection, processing and
dissemination of information by computer and communication
networks, such as cell phone networks; and the design of
computers and large software systems.

Admission and selection
-

An NSC aggregate of at least 70% (excluding Life Orientation)
Mathematics 70%
Physical Sciences 60%
English Home Language 50%, with no Afrikaans requirement,
OR English First Additional Language 60%, with no Afrikaans 		
requirement, OR English First Additional Language 50% with 		
Afrikaans Home Language 50% OR English First Additional 		
Language 50% with Afrikaans Second Additional Language 60%
- Applicants are also subject to selection according to selection 		
criteria

BEng (Electrical and Electronic) (Data Engineering)
(4 years)
Similar programmes: Overlap with BEng (Electrical and Electronic)
particularly in areas such as programming and software
development and data-driven applications, signal processing,
embedded systems, Machine learning and AI, etc; BSc (Computer
Science) – several areas of overlap, particularly in the context of
handling and processing data, cloud computing, data security and
privacy, machine learning and AI.

According to the Faculty’s selection guidelines, your selection
mark is calculated by using the marks (out of 100) of your Grade
11 subjects (for conditional selection) or Grade 12 subjects (for final
selection) as follows:

Career opportunities: Data Analyst, Data Engineer

Selection mark = Mathematics percentage + Physical Sciences
percentage + (6 x Matric average)

BEng (Industrial) (4 years)

The Matric average is calculated from the six best Matric subjects’
percentages (excluding Life Orientation). The maximum score is
800. Note that Mathematics and Physical Sciences normally also
contribute to the average.

Similar programmes: BEng (Mechanical) – particularly in the
context of manufacturing, production and quality control, systems
design and integration and energy efficiency; BEng (Industrial) –
overlap particularly in the context of optimizing and managing
large-scale projects and systems.

Over the last few years, a selection mark of 600 or more gave
students a good chance of admission to certain programmes, but
in others, 620 or more were required. In other words, to have a
reasonable chance of selection for some programmes, your mark
for Mathematics, as well as your NSC average, should be above
75, and Physical Sciences above 65, while for other programmes a
Mathematics mark of at least 80, together with a Physical Sciences
mark of at least 70, will be needed. You can apply to more than one
programme.

Career opportunities: The main branches of Industrial Engineering
are manufacturing technology and operational systems design. It
involves facets that are important in modern industrial and service
environments, such as quality assurance, robotics, engineering
economics, operations research, industrial ergonomics and
information technology.

BEng (Mechanical) (4 years)
BEng PROGRAMMES
Similar programmes: BEng (Mechatronic) – Largest overlap
between engineering degrees in the Faculty particularly in design
and development of complex systems that integrate mechanical
and electronic components; BEng (Chemical), BEng (Electrical &
Electronic), BEng (Industrial), BEng (Civil)

BEng (Chemical) (4 years)

Similar programmes: BEng (Mechanical) – both fields involve
thermodynamics and fluid dynamics. They often work together
on process design and equipment; BSc (Chemistry) – this degree
and BEng (Chemical) share several foundational courses such as
Mathematics and Physical Sciences.

Career opportunities: Mechanical engineering is characterised
by the motion and transfer of energy, for example in vehicles,
aeroplanes, vessels, missiles, cooling systems, power stations and
engines, but also includes machines used in all branches of the
economy, such as process plants and manufacturing industries.

Career opportunities: Chemical engineers specialise in the largescale operation of processes by which various consumer products
are produced, such as chemicals, pharmaceutical products,
fertilisers, fuels, metals and other materials. They are also involved
where effluents and waste materials are processed and recycled.

BEng (Mechatronic) (4 years)
Similar programmes: BEng (Mechanical), BEng (Electrical &
Electronics)
Career opportunities: Mechatronic engineers focus on systems
characterised by close integration of mechanical components,
electronic sensors, mechanical and electrical actuators and
computer controllers. Examples of mechatronic systems include
electronic engine control systems, robot systems and automated
assembly lines.

BEng (Civil) (4 years)
Similar programmes: Overlap with BEng (Chemical) in areas like
water treatment, environmental engineering and construction
materials; BSc (Earth Science) and BSc (Geoinformatics)

Extended curriculum programmes (ECPs) (5 years)

Career opportunities: Civil engineers are responsible for large,
permanent works such as irrigation systems, bridges, dams,
harbours, canals, airports, roads and streets, pipelines, sewerage
systems, railways, structures of various kinds and structure
foundations, stormwater systems, tunnels, towers, water supply
systems, and various kinds of heavy construction work.

All our BEng programmes are also available as ECPs, which require
one extra year of study. A limited number of applicants who meet
the minimum requirements of the BEng ECPs will be selected.
Selection considers the selection score as above and the socioeconomic status of applicants to give preference to candidates from
underserved educational backgrounds.
10

FACULTY OF
LAW

BCom (Law) (3 years)
80 places in the programme.
Interfaculty programme: You take modules from the Faculty of Law
and the Faculty of Economic and Management Sciences.

Applicants who meet the minimum admission requirements are
selected according to the Faculty’s selection guidelines on
www.maties.com > Apply > Admission and selection requirements.

- Write the NBTs AQL and MAT before 31 July
- An aggregate of at least 70% (excluding Life Orientation) in the 		
NSC or IEB school-leaving certificate
- English or Afrikaans Home Language 60% OR Afrikaans or
- English First Additional Language 70%
- Mathematics 60%

Selection is based on final Grade 11 (or if available final Grade 12
results) and the National Benchmark Test results in an 80:20 ratio.

LLB (four-year)

Similar programmes: LLB, BAccLLB, BA (Law)

120 places in the programme.

Career opportunities: The degree provides the necessary
background for a career in the business world and commercial
law. The BCom (Law) degree also provides entry to the 2-year LLB
degree, which you must complete if you wish to become a legal
practitioner (attorney or advocate).

- Write the NBTs AQL before 31 July
- An aggregate of at least 70% (excluding Life Orientation) in the 		
NSC or IEB school-leaving certificate
- English or Afrikaans Home Language 60% OR Afrikaans or English
First Additional Language 70%
If you wish to take Economics as a university subject, then also:
- Mathematics 60%

BAccLLB (5 years)

If you wish to take a university subject from another faculty, please
make sure that you meet its requirements.

35 places in the programme.
Interfaculty programme: You take modules from the Faculty of Law
and the Faculty of Economic and Management Sciences.

Similar programmes: BAccLLB, BA (Law), BCom (Law)
Career opportunities: Legal practitioner (attorney or advocate)
after having completed the prescribed practical training and
passing the entrance examinations set by the profession; Judge
(Magistrate, Regional Magistrate, High Court Judge, Appeal Court
Judge, Constitutional Court Judge); Public Prosecutor; Deeds
Office examiner or registrar; Master of the High Court clerk or
registrar; Legal advisor (in-house legal counsel); Compliance
manager; Mediator or arbitrator; Public Protector; Academic
(lecturer); Non-governmental organisation (NGO) work.

- Write the NBTs AQL and MAT before 31 July
- An aggregate of at least 80% (excluding Life Orientation) in the 		
NSC or IEB school-leaving certificate.
- English or Afrikaans Home Language 60% OR Afrikaans or English
First Additional Language 70%
- Mathematics 70% OR Mathematics 60% and Accounting 70%
Similar programmes: LLB, BAccLLB, BCom (Law)
Career opportunities: The BAccLLB degree is unique, combining
two degrees. Graduates can therefore choose to pursue a career
in either law or accounting or any related field. The LLB enables
you to enter the legal profession, after having completed practical
training and passed the prescribed examinations. The BAcc gives
you access to a postgraduate qualification in accounting which is
required for becoming a chartered accountant.

There are a multitude of other career options for law graduates,
some examples include: Entrepreneur; Business manager; Journalist;
National or provincial government.

LLB (three-year)
50 places in the programme.
This degree is only available as a second bachelor’s degree
and is aimed at bachelor graduates from disciplines other than
law. Selection is based on the prior bachelor’s degree and only
applicants that have achieved at least a 60% aggregate in the prior
degree are considered for selection.

BA (Law) (3 years)
55 places in the programme.
Interfaculty programme: You take modules from the Faculty of Law
and the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences.
- Write the NBTs AQL before 31 July
- An aggregate of at least 70% (excluding Life Orientation) in the 		
NSC or IEB school-leaving certificate
- English or Afrikaans Home Language 60% OR Afrikaans or English
First Additional Language 70%
If you wish to take Economics as a university subject, then also:
- Mathematics 60%
If you wish to take a university subject from another faculty, please
make sure that you meet its requirements.
Similar programmes: LLB, BAccLLB, BCom (Law)
Career opportunities: The degree enriches one’s understanding
of languages, human behavior and social issues. The BA (Law)
degree also provides entry to the 2-year LLB degree, which you
must complete if you wish to become a legal practitioner (attorney
or advocate).
11

FACULTY OF MEDICINE
AND HEALTH SCIENCES

Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4 years)
±50 candidates are selected annually.

Our programmes are accredited for professional registration by
bodies such as the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
and the South African Nursing Council (SANC).

- An aggregate of at least 60% for the NSC or an equivalent 		
qualification (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 40%
- Life Sciences 50%

Admission and selection

Similar programmes: BSc in Physiotherapy; Bachelor of Nursing,
BSc in Dietetics; BSc in Human Life Sciences; BSc in Sport
Science.

Applicants who meet the minimum admission requirements are
selected according to the Faculty’s selection guidelines on
www.maties.com > Apply > Admission and selection requirements.
Applicants are considered according to the following categories:
1.

2.

3.

Career opportunities: After a year of community service, you may
register at the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist.

Current learners (Grade 12) and applicants who have completed
school in 2024 or 2023 and who have not participated in any
formal studies, are selected for these programmes on the
grounds of their academic merit.
Registered university students (MBChB only considers
registered SU students) are considered based on academic and
non-academic merits as outlined in the selection guidelines of
each programme.
Applicants with tertiary qualifications and / or work experience
are considered based on academic and non-academic merits
as outlined in the selection guidelines of each programme.

BSc in Physiotherapy (4 years)
±55 candidates are selected annually.
- An aggregate of at least 60% for the NSC or an equivalent 		
qualification (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 60%
- Physical Sciences 50%

MBChB (6 years)

Similar programmes: BSc in Sport Science; BSc in Human Life
Sciences; Bachelor of Nursing; Bachelor of Occupational Therapy

±300 candidates are selected annually.

Career opportunities: After a year of community service, you may
register at the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist.

- An aggregate of at least 75% for the NSC or an equivalent 		
qualification (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 60%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Life Sciences 50%

Bachelor of Speech-Language and Hearing Therapy
(4 years)
±30 candidates are selected annually.

Similar programmes: Refer to the admission and selection
requirements. www.maties.com > Apply > Admission and Selection
Requirements.

- An aggregate of at least 60% for the NSC or an equivalent 		
qualification (excluding Life Orientation)
- Physical Sciences OR Life Sciences 50%
- At least TWO of the following THREE languages (Home 		
Language or First Additional Language) 60%: English AND/		
OR Afrikaans AND/OR a third South African language.

Career opportunities: After an internship of two years and a
community service year, you will be eligible to register at the
HPCSA in the category Independent Medical Practitioner.

Bachelor of Nursing (4 years)

Similar programmes: Bachelor of Occupational Therapy; BSc in
Physiotherapy; BSc in Human Life Sciences.

±50 candidates are selected annually.

Career opportunities: After a year of community service, you may
register at the HPCSA as a Speech-Language Therapist.

- An aggregate of at least 60% for the NSC or an equivalent 		
qualification (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 40% OR Mathematical Literacy 70%
- Life Sciences 50%
Similar programmes: BSc in Dietetics; Bachelor of Occupational
Therapy; BSc in Physiotherapy and Bachelor of Speech-Language
and Hearing Therapy
Career opportunities: After a year of community service, you may
register with SANC as a Nurse and Midwife.

BSc in Dietetics (4 years)
±35 candidates are selected annually.
- An aggregate of at least 60% for the NSC or an equivalent 		
qualification (excluding Life Orientation)
- Mathematics 50%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Life Sciences 50%
Similar programmes: BSc in Food Science; BSc in Molecular
Biology and Biotechnology; Bachelor of Occupational Therapy;
BSc in Physiotherapy.
Career opportunities: After a year of community service, you may
register at the HPCSA as a Dietitian.
12

FACULTY OF
SCIENCE

Focal areas (you choose one)
- Biology
- Biology with Psychology
Similar programmes: BSc Molecular Biology and Biotechnology;
BSc with focal area Applied Medicinal Chemistry, or focal area
Biomedical Mathematical Sciences; BSc Sport Science.

Students are encouraged to follow up a three-year BSc degree
with an Honours degree. This will enable you to gain recognition
and registration (where relevant) as a professional scientist and
will broaden your career opportunities. All the undergraduate
programmes offered in the Faculty of Science lead to postgraduate
programmes in the Faculty of Science; or other faculties.

Career opportunities: forensic scientist, physiologist, stem
cell researcher, laboratory analyst, medical representative,
biomedical scientist, exercise physiologist, nutritionist, clinical
researcher, biochemist, human geneticist, forensic or clinical
psychologist (with the necessary postgraduate qualification), life
sciences teacher (after completion of Postgraduate Certificate
in Education), anthropometrist, biotechnologist: work on human
cells, development of new medicines, science journalist (with the
necessary postgraduate qualification).

For more information on postgraduate programmes, please consult
the University’s Postgraduate Prospectus at https://www.sun.ac.za/
english/pgstudies/.

Admission and selection

BSc Molecular Biology and Biotechnology (3 years)

If you are currently in grade 12, the Faculty uses your final grade 11
marks for selection. If you completed grade 12, your final grade 12
marks will be used for selection. A selection mark is calculated as
follows:

- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Mathematics 60% or 70% (depending on your choice of first-year
Mathematics and Physics) **

Selection mark:
[(Mathematics x 2) + 5 other subjects (of which at least one must be
English or Afrikaans; excluding Life Orientation)] ÷ 7
Please note that the selection threshold is higher than the
minimum criteria as stated below. For selection criteria please
read the document “Faculty of Science admission and selection
guidelines” on www.maties.com > Apply > Admission and
selection requirements.

Similar programmes: BSc Human Life Sciences; BSc Chemistry;
BSc with focal area Applied Medicinal Chemistry, or focal area
Bioinformatics; BScAgric Viticulture and Oenology.
Career opportunities: plant biotechnologist, forensic scientist,
marine scientist, environmental assessment practitioner,
laboratory analyst, food inspection analyst, biochemist, geneticist,
life sciences teacher (after completion of Postgraduate Certificate
in Education), biofuel developer, microbiologist, biotechnologist:
work on cells, yeasts, bacteria, fungi, and viruses to develop
disease-free plants, new medicines, or enzymes useful in industry
or mining, water analyst.

Note on admission requirements for Mathematics**
The mathematics requirement for a programme depends on your
choice of subjects in your first year at university.
- If you take Mathematics and Physics as first-year subjects: 		
Mathematics 70%
- If you take Mathematics (Bio) and Physics (Bio) as first-year 		
subjects: Mathematics 60%

PROGRAMMES IN THE BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES

BSc Sport Science (3 years)

BSc Biodiversity and Ecology (3 years)

- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Mathematics 60%

- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Mathematics 60%

Similar programmes: BSc Human Life Sciences, BSc with focal
area Biomedical Mathematical Sciences; BSc Physiotherapy.

Focal areas (you choose one)
- Climate Change Ecology
- Plant and Animal Biodiversity
- Plants and Microbes

Career opportunities: sport coach, sport manager, sport
scientist, sport physiologist, work with persons with disabilities,
fitness instructor, biokineticist (with the necessary postgraduate
qualification), personal trainer, teacher (after completion of
Postgraduate Certificate in Education).

Similar programmes: BSc with focal area Biomathematics; BSc
Conservation Ecology; BScAgric Plant and Soil Sciences; BScAgric
Animal Production Systems.

PROGRAMMES IN THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES

Career opportunities: botanist, zoologist, plant biotechnologist,
conservation scientist, forensic scientist, marine scientist,
environmental assessment practitioner, conservation technician,
ecologist, laboratory analyst, environmental consultant,
environmental impact expert, land-use planner, agricultural
advisor, environmental educator, life sciences teacher (after
completion of Postgraduate Certificate in Education).

BSc Chemistry (3 years)
- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Mathematics 70%

BSc Human Life Sciences (3 years)

Focal areas (you choose one)
- Chemistry and Polymer Science
- Chemical Biology
- Applied and Sustainable Chemistry

- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Mathematics 60% or 70% (depending on your choice of first-year
Mathematics and Physics) **
13

Focal areas (you choose one)
- Laser Physics (Physical),
- Laser Physics (Biological)
- Theoretical Physics

Similar programmes: BSc Molecular Biology and Biotechnology;
BSc with focal area Applied Medicinal Chemistry; BSc Earth
Science; BSc Food Science.
Career opportunities: research scientist, quality assurance
manager, disaster management officer, analytical chemist,
toxicologist, pharmacologist, careers in the packaging, paint,
adhesives and textile industries, as well as in the manufacturing
sector or with suppliers of raw materials, careers concerned with
the planning and operation of chemical plants, the development
of analytical methods and production processes, marketing of
chemicals and scientific instruments, environmental scientist,
forensic analyst, manufacturer of pesticides, pharmaceutical
products, cosmetic and fragrance products, chemist working in
process and quality control of raw materials and manufactured
products, product developer (prostheses, sportswear, sports
equipment, protective clothing), textile scientist (medical textiles,
industrial textiles, microfibres, nanofibres), technical sales
manager, production manager, quality manager, buyer, physical
sciences teacher (after completion of Postgraduate Certificate
in Education), patent lawyer (with the necessary postgraduate
qualification).

Similar programmes: BSc Chemistry, BSc Mathematical Sciences
with focal area Applied Mathematics.
Career opportunities: radiation protection practitioner,
medical physicist, nanotechnologist, data analyst, physical
sciences teacher (after completion of Postgraduate Certificate
in Education), geophysicist, medical industry, air quality
assessor, atmospheric modeller, forensic physicist, research
opportunities at the iThemba Laboratory for Accelerator-based
Sciences (iThemba LABS) and industries such as Eskom, the
CSIR, Sasol, the SABS, a career in industries such as optical
systems, communication (optical fibres), ecology (pollution
monitoring), criminology (forensic science), defence (control and
communication), nuclear power stations and mines, work in the
broad fields of information technology, geology, biological and
financial sector, astrophysicist, cosmologist.

PROGRAMMES IN THE MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES

BSc Earth Science (3 years)

BSc Mathematical Sciences (3 years)
- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Mathematics 60% or 70% (depending on your choice of first-year
Mathematics and Physics) **

-

- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 70%
If you take Chemistry or Physics as a university subject:
- Physical Sciences 50%

Focal areas (you choose one)
		- Applied Earth Science
		- Geo-environmental Science

Focal areas (you choose one)
- Applied Mathematics
- Mathematics
- Operations Research

Similar programmes: BSc Biodiversity and Ecology; BSc
Chemistry; BScAgric Plant and Soil Sciences.
Career opportunities: environmental consultant, groundwater
specialist, geotechnical geologist, soil scientist, land-use
rehabilitator, geologist, mining geologist, environmental
rehabilitation engineer, exploration consultant, environmental
geochemist, seismologist, rock expert, marine geologist, applied
mineralogist, volcanologist, geophysicist.

Similar programmes: BSc Computer Science; BEng; BSc
Physics; BCom Mathematical Sciences; BSc with focal area
Biomathematics.

BSc Computer Science (3 years)

BSc GeoInformatics (3 years)
- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 70%

- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Mathematics 60%; OR
70% (if you choose Computer Science as university subject) **

If you take Chemistry or Physics as a university subject:
- Physical Sciences 50%
Focal areas (you choose one)
- General Computer Science
- Computer Systems
- Data Science

Similar programmes: BSc Earth Science; BSc Computer Science;
BA Development and the Environment.
Career opportunities: chief spatial information officer, geospatial
information integrator, remote sensing specialist, meteorologist,
GIS (Geographic Information Systems) technician, transportation
planning, cartography, map designer, geospatial software
engineer, climatologist, earth observation analyst, earth
observation (remote sensing) specialist working for environmental
consultancy groups, planning and engineering firms, programme
development and computer consultancy groups on all levels of
government involved in resource and infrastructure management,
agencies concerned with natural and human resource
development programmes, mineral exploration and mining.

Similar programmes: BSc Mathematical Sciences; BEng; BSc
Physics; BSc GeoInformatics; BSc with focal area Bioinformatics
and Computational Biology; BCom Mathematical Sciences;
BDatSci
Career opportunities (programmes in the Mathematical Sciences):
actuarial analyst, quantitative analyst, credit analyst, risk
manager, risk product developer, business intelligence analyst,
forensic computer analyst, computer systems analyst, database
administrator, financial analyst, mathematician, operations
research analyst, acoustic consultant, data analyst, investment
analyst, software tester, games designer and developer,
CAD designer, financial manager, mathematics teacher (after
completion of Postgraduate Certificate in Education), operations
researcher, supply chain analyst, data scientist, lecturer,
researcher in interdisciplinary scientific fields which rely more
on structural mathematics rather than analytical mathematics,
consultant in the engineering industry, programmer, expert in the
modelling of dynamic processes, image processing, numerical

BSc Physics (3 years)
- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Physical Sciences 50%
- Mathematics 70%
14

FACULTY OF
THEOLOGY

methods and flow modelling in banking or the engineering or
computer industry, careers requiring sophisticated quantitative
skills, such as in the banking, investment and insurance sectors,
process or system optimiser, logistics expert in the transportation
and provisioning sectors, project developer, planner, also
application possibilities in company farming, mining, forestry,
the manufacturing sector, product marketing, systems designer,
software developer in the security and banking industries, network
specialist, designer of mobile applications for smartphones and
tablets, 3D animator for the film industry.

Applicants who meet the minimum admission requirements are
selected according to the Faculty’s selection guidelines on
www.maties.com > Apply > Admission and selection requirements.

BTh (Bachelor of Theology) (3 years)

INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAMMES

- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)
Similar programmes: BDiv (Bachelor of Divinity)

BSc (3 years)

Career opportunities: Become a youth worker, counsellor or
community worker.

- An aggregate of at least 65% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Afrikaans OR English (Home Language or First Additional 		
Language) 50%
- Mathematics 70%
- Physical Sciences 50%

BDiv (Bachelor of Divinity) (4 years)
- An NSC aggregate of at least 60% (excluding Life Orientation)

Focal areas (you choose one)
- Biomedical Mathematical Sciences
- Applied Medicinal Chemistry
- Bioinformatics and Computational Biology
- Biomathematics

Similar programmes: BTh (Bachelor of Theology)
Career opportunities: First step in ministerial training. To become
a minister in the Dutch Reformed Church (DRC) or Uniting
Reformed Church (URC) complete the BDiv and the MDiv. DRC
candidates also need to obtain the Postgraduate Diploma in
Theology (Christian Ministry). Presbyterian, Anglican and Volkskerk
ministry candidates are trained further by their denominations.

Bachelor of Data Science (BDatSci) (4 years)
This is an interfaculty programme.

Extended Curriculum Programme (+1 year)

- An aggregate of at least 80% for the NSC (excluding Life 		
Orientation)
- Mathematics 80%
- Afrikaans Home Language 60% OR English Home Language 		
60% OR Afrikaans First Additional Language 75% OR
English First Additional Language 75%

Candidates for the BTh and the BDiv may come into consideration
for the extended curriculum programme.
- An NSC aggregate of at least 55% but below 60% (excluding Life
Orientation)
- An interview with the Dean or a representative, if required.
- This is a selection programme as limited spaces are available

Focal areas (you choose one)
- Computer Science
- Applied Mathematics
- Statistical Physics

** Motivational letter from Church denomination/Minister pertaining
to involvement in Church and indicating the reasons why student is
recommended by Church/Denomination for Theology studies.

Similar programmes: BSc Computer Science; BEng; BSc Physics;
BSc Mathematical Sciences; BSc with focal area Bioinformatics
and Computational Biology, or focal area Biomedical
Mathematical Sciences; BCom Mathematical Sciences.
Career opportunities (Interdisciplinary Programmes): analyst,
development chemist, research assistant, onsite chemist, medical
chemist, data scientist, machine learning engineer, machine
learning scientist, applications architect, business intelligence
(BI) developer, statistician, data analyst, medical science liaison,
pharmaceutical scientist, clinical trial associate, regulatory affairs
specialist, pharmacovigilance officer, quality assurance specialist,
medical representative, medical epidemiologist, biomedical
engineer, personalised medicine analyst, researcher in systems
biology.

BSc Extended Curriculum Programmes (ECPs) (4 years)
These programmes offer an alternative route into programmes in
the Biological, Physical, Mathematical Sciences and interdisciplinary
BSc.
A 4-year BSc (extended curriculum programme) (ECP) has a
foundational year, followed by the curriculum for one of the
mainstream programmes of the BSc degree.
•
Applicants from the designated diversity groups and socioeconomic categories who are not meeting the selection
requirements, will receive an offer to change to an ECP in
October.
•
Applicants from the designated diversity groups and socioeconomic categories who did not meet the selection
requirements to receive a final offer, may submit a request for
admission to an ECP in January.

Indemnity
The University reserves the right to adjust the information
in this brochure at any time and as the need arises. This
information may therefore be incomplete or out of date.
The information is given here to the best of our knowledge
and as accurately and fully as possible at the time of going
to press in December 2024. Verifying the given information
remains the responsibility of the prospective student. The
latest information is available on www.maties.com and at the
telephone numbers given in this brochure.
15

STAY UP TO DATE
www.maties.com

Follow us
Facebook: www.facebook.com/stellenboschuniversity
X: @StellenboschUni
Instagram: www.instagram.com/stellenboschuni
YouTube: www.youtube.com/user/StellenboschUni

Apply at Stellenbosch University

Accommodation

Financial Aid

Fees

Client Service Centre
Telephone: +27 21 808 9111
Fax: +27 21 808 3822
E-mail: info@sun.ac.za
Private Bag X1
Matieland, 7602
South Africa

16

