|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

2026

U N D E R G R A D U AT E
PROSPECTUS
1

CONTENTS
4

Message from the Vice-Chancellor

47

Faculty of Humanities

7

Using this Prospectus

59

Faculty of Law

9

Discovering UCT

64

Faculty of Science

10

About Cape Town and UCT

71

Student Housing

11

Key dates

75

Sports, Student Clubs

12

Application and Admission to UCT

18

National Benchmark Tests

78

International Students

22

Faculty of Commerce

82

Tuition Fees & Residence Costs

30

Faculty of Engineering

83

Funding your studies

& the Built Environment

86

Student Life at UCT

Faculty of Health Sciences

90

Contact information

37

& Student Societies

|

3

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

Message from the
Vice-Chancellor
We find ourselves in the 21st century, and life is changing so fast that it
may seem as if the globe is spinning more quickly. Higher education offers
a way to keep both feet firmly on the ground while you decide how high
you want to fly in your chosen career path.
An academic programme at the University of Cape Town (UCT) can
prepare you not just to keep up with change, but to lead change. This is
especially important on a continent like Africa, where so many urgent
changes are needed.
Higher education provides the tools, knowledge and experience to design
changes that serve the needs not only of our communities, but also
across the world. Higher education helps us to recognise the opportunity
hidden inside every challenge, and to develop that opportunity. If working
on the problems you see in your own community excites you, then UCT
can help you begin to make a meaningful contribution to society.
UCT staff and students across the institution have made a commitment
to changing the world for the better, by unleashing human potential to
create a fair and just society. We would love to help you unleash your own
potential. Thank you for showing interest in applying to UCT by opening
this UCT Prospectus for 2026.
This publication contains all the information you need to choose an
academic programme within one of our six faculties: Commerce,
Engineering & the Built Environment, Health Sciences, Humanities, Law,
and Science. They each offer internationally recognised qualifications at
the university that is consistently ranked the best in Africa.

UCT can help you create a personally enriching student life at one of
the world’s most beautiful and diverse campuses. In fact, UCT has four
physical campuses that serve students across a wide range of academic
interests, including earning an MBA at our award-winning Graduate School
of Business.
Our academics are recognised as world-class experts in their respective
fields. The advances they have made through their own research and
knowledge creations will help to keep your own studies on the cutting
edge. UCT consistently performs well in various world university ranking
systems, thanks to the excellence of our research, teaching and social
responsiveness.
UCT offers opportunities for developing cultural, spiritual, social, sports
and political interests, as well as ways you can help serve the surrounding
community. We focus on helping you build a balanced lifestyle where
you can grow your personal life as well as your mental, academic and
professional skills.
The university environment we strive to create at UCT is one that is
rooted around our core values, including ubuntu – I am because you are.
Characteristic of any academic space, we encourage healthy and collegial
debate and discussions, but these are premised on respect, kindness,
compassion and empathy. Our campus community is drawn from diverse
backgrounds, and we create an environment that is free of discrimination
and bullying, while providing an enabling space for all our students to
grow, develop and nurture their talent.
The friendships you make here can create a network that will serve you for
the rest of your life; and upon graduation, you’ll join our network of alumni
with a footprint that stretches across the world.
Should you need financial assistance for your studies, please turn to the
section that outlines how to seek funding from the National Student

Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) and/or how to apply for one of a number
of UCT scholarships.
As a UCT student, you will have access to academic and social support
to help you succeed, no matter the circumstances. We follow a blended
educational format that uses different learning platforms, including
face-to-face sessions as well as online access to academic support and
learning resources.
Of course, your health and wellbeing are a priority for us. UCT support
structures are designed for students who may need guidance in adjusting
to campus life. To help build a healthy and balanced lifestyle, we invite you
to join one or more of our 40 sports clubs or one of our 100+ societies that
can help you to build your cultural or spiritual interests, engage with social
justice issues, or hone your entrepreneurial skills.
UCT alumni enjoy one of the country’s highest graduate employment
rates. Our students are often recruited directly into the private and public
sectors, thanks to the sterling work undertaken by UCT’s Career Service
department, which connects employers with future graduates. Career
advice is available to all UCT students and remains a free service for
three years after graduation. We also provide opportunities for student
entrepreneurs who want to develop their own businesses.
I wish you success and wisdom in making this important decision about
your future. Please feel free to contact UCT’s Admissions Office with any
questions you may have.
Warm Regards,
Professor Mosa Moshabela
Vice-Chancellor

4

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

Umyalezo ovela
kwiSekela-Shansela
Siphila kwinkulungwane yama-21, kwaye ubomi buyatshintsha
ngesantya esikhawulezayo kangangokuba kunokubonakala ngathi
umhlaba ujikeleza ngokukhawuleza ngakumbi. Imfundo ephakamileyo
inikezela ngendlela yokugcina zombini iinyawo zakho zisisigxina
emhlabeni ngelixa uthatha isigqibo sokuba ufuna ukuphakama
kangakanani kwindlela oyikhethileyo yomsebenzi.
Inkqubo
yezemfundo
kwiDyunivesithi
yaseKapa
(UCT)
ayinakukulungiselela kuphela ukuhambisana notshintsho, kodwa
nokulukhokelela. Oku kubaluleke kakhulu kwilizwekazi laseAfrika,
apho kukho imfuno enkulu yetshintsho elikhawulezileyo.

ububele, uzwelo kunye nemfesane. Uluntu lwethu lwabafundi
lusekelwe kwiindima ezahlukeneyo, kwaye sinika indawo esingabikho
kuyo ucalucalulo kunye nokugrogriswa, ukuze wonke umfundi akwazi
ukukhula, ukuphuhlisa nokugcina italente yakhe.
Ubuhlobo oza kubenza apha bungakhela inethiwekhi eza kukunceda
ubomi bakho bonke; kwaye xa uphumelele, uza kujoyina inethiwekhi
yethu yabadlulayo kwi-UCT abanempembelelo kwihlabathi liphela.
Ukuba ufuna uncedo lwezemali kwizifundo zakho, nceda ubheke
kwicandelo elichaza indlela yokufumana inkxaso ye-NSFAS okanye
ezinye izifundiswa ezinikwa yi-UCT.
Njengomfundi wase-UCT, uza kufumana inkxaso yezemfundo
neyezoluntu ukukunceda uphumelele, kungakhathaliseki iimeko
ozifumaneka kuzo. Sisebenzisa indlela yemfundo edityanisiweyo
equka iiseshoni zobuso ngobuso, kunye nokufikelela kwizixhobo
zemfundo ezikwi-intanethi.
Ngokuqinisekileyo, impilo yakho nempilo-ntle yakho zibalulekile
kuthi. Sineenkqubo zenkxaso ezenzelwe abafundi abanokufuna
inkxaso yokuzifaka kwindawo yekhampasi. Ukuze sikwazi ukwakha
ubomi obunempilo nobulinganiselweyo, siyakumema ukuba ujoyine
elinye lamaqela ethu angaphezu kwama-40 ezemidlalo okanye
iiklabhu ezingaphezu kwe-100 eziza kukunceda ukuphuhlisa umdla
wakho kwezenkcubeko, ukholo, imiba yoluntu, okanye izakhono
zoosomashishini.
Abafundi abadlulayo e-UCT bayazibonelela ngamathuba amahle
emisebenzi. Abaninzi bakhethwa ngokuthe ngqo kumacandelo
abucala nawohulumeni, ngenxa yomsebenzi omhle wecandelo
leNkxaso-msebenzi le-UCT, elidibanisa abaQeshi nabafundi bethu
abatsha abaza kube begqibile izifundo zabo. Sinikezela ngengcebiso
yomsebenzi kuwo onke amagumbi abafundi e-UCT, kwaye le nkonzo
ihlala isimahla iminyaka emithathu emva kokuphumelela. Ukongeza,
sibonelela ngamathuba kubafundi abaqhuba amashishini abo.
Ndikunqwenelela impumelelo nobulumko kwesi sigqibo sibalulekileyo
malunga nekamva lakho. Nceda uzive ukhululekile ukunxibelelana
neOfisi yokuNgena kwabafundi e-UCT xa unemibuzo.

Imfundo ephakamileyo ibonelela ngezixhobo, ulwazi namava okwakha
utshintsho oluhlangabezana neemfuno zoluntu lwethu, kunye
nehlabathi liphela. Iyasifundisa ukubona amathuba afihlakeleyo
kwiingxaki esijongene nazo, size sikwazi ukuwakhulisa la mathuba.
Ukuba ukucinga ngendlela onokulungisa ngayo iingxaki zoluntu lwakho
kukuvuyisa, i-UCT ingakunceda ukuba uqale ukwenza umahluko
obalulekileyo kuluntu.
Abasebenzi nabafundi e-UCT bazibophelele ekwenzeni umahluko
olumkileyo ehlabathini, ngokukhululeka amandla abantu ukwakha
uluntu olunobulungisa nolulinganayo.
Singathanda ukukunceda ukuba ukhuphele amandla akho
ngokupheleleyo. Siyabulela ngombulelo omkhulu ngokubonisa umdla
wokufaka isicelo sokungena e-UCT ngokuvula le ncwadi yesikhokelo
yama-2026 ye-UCT.
Le ncwadi iqulathe lonke ulwazi oludingayo ukhetha inkqubo
yezemfundo kwelinye lamasebe ethu amathandathu: uRhwebo,
uBunjineli & iNdalo yoLwakhiwo, iSayensi yeMpilo, uLuntu, uMthetho,
neSayensi. Onke la masebe anikezela ngezidanga ezaziwa ngamazwe
jikelele kwiyunivesithi ehlala ihleli kwinqanaba eliphezulu eAfrika.
I-UCT inokukunceda ukuba wakhe ubomi bobuqu obutyebileyo
njengomfundi kwenye yezona khampasi zintle nezahlukileyo
emhlabeni. Ngapha koko, i-UCT inee-khampasi ezine ezihlangabezana
nabafundi abaneenkanuko ezahlukeneyo kwezemfundo, kuquka
ukufumana i-MBA kwiSikolo sezoShishino esiphumelele amabhaso.
Abahlohli bethu baziwa njengamagcisa akwinqanaba eliphezulu
kwiindawo zabo zobungcali. Inkqubela phambili abayenze kuphando
lwabo nolwazi abalwenzayo iya kuqinisekisa ukuba nezifundo zakho
zihlala kwinqanaba elitsha lemfundo. I-UCT isoloko iqhuba kakuhle
kwiinkqubo ezininzi zokulinganisa iiyunivesithi kwihlabathi liphela
ngenxa yobuchule bophando, ukufundisa kunye nokuphendula
kwezentlalo.
I-UCT ibonelela ngamathuba okuphuhlisa inkcubeko, ukholo, ezentlalo,
ezemidlalo kunye neminqweno yezopolitiko, kwakunye neendlela
onokuthi uncedise ngazo kuluntu olukujikelezileyo. Sigxininisa
ekwakheni ubomi obulinganiselweyo obukuvumela ukuba uphucule
ubomi bakho bobuqu, kwangaxeshanye nokomeleza izakhono zakho
zemfundo nezoqeqesho.
Indawo yethu yaseyunivesithi siyizamela ukuba ibenomoya obonisa
amaxabiso ethu aphambili, kuquka ubuntu – ndikhona ngenxa yokuba
ukhona. Njengayo nayiphi na indawo yemfundo, sikhuthaza iingxoxo
nezimvo ezingafaniyo, kodwa oku kwenziwa ngesiseko sentlonipho,

Ngombulelo omkhulu,
uNjingalwazi Mosa Moshabela
ISekela-Shansela

5

Boodskap van die
visekanselier
Ons bevind ons in die 21ste eeu, en die lewe verander so vinnig dat
dit kan lyk asof die aardbol vinniger draai. Hoër onderwys bied ’n
manier om albei voete stewig op die grond te hou terwyl jy besluit
hoe hoog jy in jou gekose loopbaan wil vlieg.

skep ‘n omgewing wat vry is van diskriminasie en afknouery, terwyl
ons ‘n bemagtigende ruimte bied vir al ons studente om hul talent
te groei, te ontwikkel en te koester.
Die vriendskappe wat jy hier maak kan ‘n netwerk skep wat jou
vir die res van jou lewe sal dien; en na die gradeplegtigheid, sal jy
by ons netwerk van alumni aansluit met ‘n voetspoor wat oor die
wêreld strek.
Indien jy finansiële bystand vir jou studies benodig, blaai asseblief
na die afdeling wat uiteensit hoe om befondsing by die Nasionale
Finansiële Hulpskema vir Studente (NSFAS) te soek en/of hoe om
aansoek te doen vir een van ‘n aantal UK-beurse.
As ‘n UK-student sal jy toegang hê tot akademiese en sosiale
ondersteuning om jou te help slaag, ongeag die omstandighede.
Ons volg ‘n gemengde opvoedkundige formaat wat verskillende
leerplatforms gebruik, insluitend aangesig-tot-aangesig sessies
sowel as aanlyn toegang tot akademiese ondersteuning en
leerhulpbronne.
Natuurlik is u gesondheid en welstand vir ons ‘n prioriteit. UKondersteuningstrukture is ontwerp vir studente wat dalk leiding
benodig om by die kampuslewe aan te pas. Om te help bou aan ‘n
gesonde en gebalanseerde leefstyl, nooi ons jou uit om by een of
meer van ons 40 sportklubs of een van ons 100+ verenigings aan te
sluit wat jou kan help om jou kulturele of geestelike belangstellings
te bou, betrokke te raak by sosiale geregtigheidskwessies, of om
jou entrepreneursvaardighede te slyp.
UK-alumni geniet een van die land se hoogste gegradueerde
indiensnemingsyfers. Ons studente word dikwels direk na die
private en openbare sektore gewerf, danksy die uitstekende
werk wat deur die UK se Loopbaandiensafdeling gedoen word,
wat werkgewers met toekomstige gegradueerdes verbind.
Loopbaanadvies is beskikbaar vir alle UK-studente en bly ‘n gratis
diens vir drie jaar na graduering. Ons bied ook geleenthede vir
studente-entrepreneurs wat hul eie besighede wil ontwikkel.
Ek wens jou sukses en wysheid toe om hierdie belangrike besluit
oor jou toekoms te neem.
Kontak asseblief UK se Toelatingskantoor met enige vrae wat u
mag hê.

’n Akademiese program aan die Universiteit van Kaapstad (UK) kan
jou voorberei om nie net tred te hou met verandering nie, maar om
verandering te lei. Dit is veral belangrik op ‘n kontinent soos Afrika,
waar soveel dringende veranderinge nodig is.

Hoër onderwys verskaf die gereedskap, kennis en ervaring om
veranderinge te ontwerp wat nie net die behoeftes van ons
gemeenskappe dien nie, maar ook regoor die wêreld. Hoër onderwys
help ons om die geleentheid wat in elke uitdaging skuil, te herken en
om daardie geleentheid te ontwikkel. As die werk aan die probleme
wat jy in jou eie gemeenskap sien jou opgewonde maak, kan UK
jou help om ‘n betekenisvolle bydrae tot die samelewing te lewer.
UK-personeel en studente regoor die instelling het ‘n verbintenis
gemaak om die wêreld ten goede te verander deur menslike
potensiaal te ontketen om ‘n regverdige samelewing te skep.
Ons wil jou graag help om jou eie potensiaal te ontwikkel. Ons wil
jou bedank dat jy belangstelling toon om by UK aansoek te doen
deur hierdie UK Prospektus vir 2026 oop te maak.
Hierdie publikasie bevat al die inligting wat jy benodig om ‘n
akademiese program binne een van ons ses fakulteite te kies: Handel,
Ingenieurswese en die Bou-omgewing, Gesondheidswetenskappe,
Geesteswetenskappe, Regte en Wetenskap. Hulle bied elkeen
internasionaal erkende kwalifikasies aan by die universiteit wat
deurgaans as die beste in Afrika gereken word.
UK kan jou help om ‘n persoonlike verrykende studentelewe by
een van die wêreld se mooiste en mees diverse kampusse te skep.
Trouens, UK het vier fisiese kampusse wat studente oor ‘n wye
reeks akademiese belangstellings bedien, insluitend die werwing
van ‘n MBA by ons bekroonde “Graduate School of Business”.
Ons akademici word as kundiges van wêreldgehalte in hul
onderskeie velde erken. Die vordering wat hulle gemaak het deur
hul eie navorsing en kennisskeppings sal help om jou eie studies
aan die voorpunt te hou. UK presteer deurgaans goed in verskeie
wêreld- universiteitsrangordestelsels, danksy die uitnemendheid
van ons navorsing, onderrig en sosiale responsiwiteit.
UK bied geleenthede vir die ontwikkeling van kulturele, geestelike,
sosiale, sport- en politieke belange, asook maniere waarop jy die
omliggende gemeenskap kan help dien. Ons fokus daarop om jou
te help om ‘n gebalanseerde leefstyl te bou waar jy jou persoonlike
lewe sowel as jou geestelike, akademiese en professionele
vaardighede kan laat groei.
Die universiteitsomgewing wat ons streef om by die UK te skep, is
een wat gewortel is rondom ons kernwaardes, insluitend ubuntu
– ek is omdat jy is. Kenmerkend van enige akademiese ruimte,
moedig ons gesonde en kollegiale debat en besprekings aan, maar
dit is gegrond op respek, vriendelikheid, deernis en empatie. Ons
kampusgemeenskap kom uit uiteenlopende agtergronde, en ons

Vriendelike groete,
Professor Mosa Moshabela
Visekanselier

6

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

USING THIS
PROSPECTUS
This prospectus is a guide for school-leavers and others who
are interested in studying for an undergraduate qualification
at the University of Cape Town (UCT). It introduces you to
life at UCT, describing the campus and detailing the services
and facilities we provide for students.

number in any subsequent correspondence that you have
with us.

APPLICANT STATUS
Once you have submitted your application, you may monitor
the progress of your application online by logging into
Student Self-Service with the username and password we
provide you after application.

Details of all undergraduate programmes offered are
provided. We recommend that you also visit the websites of
faculties and departments in which you may be interested.

DISADVANTAGE FACTOR
To help you understand the contents of this prospectus, we
list below some of the terms that we use in this prospectus
and what we mean by these terms.

This is a percentage, from 0 to 10%, by which we adjust the
FPS of South African, NSC candidates to arrive at the WPS.
The disadvantage factor is in turn derived from factors
related to the disadvantage experienced by applicants in
their school and at home.

ADMISSION POINTS SCORE (APS)

EARLY CONDITIONAL OFFER

This is a score calculated from your secondary school
performance. View the calculation formulae in this prospectus.

This is an offer of admission, made during the course of
the year preceding admission, which is conditional on
performance in your final secondary school examinations.
Early conditional offers are not made to all applicants.

ADMISSIONS SELECTION CRITERIA
We use these to select whom we will accept to study at UCT.
First, we decide who has met the admission requirements.
Then, we apply the admissions selection criteria for the
programme concerned.

An early conditional offer will be withdrawn if the conditions
for admission are not met.

APPLICANT

FACULTY POINTS SCORE (FPS)

A person who applies to study for a degree, diploma or
certificate. Once you register at UCT, you become a student.

This is the score we use to rank applicants. In two faculties,
Health Sciences and Science, the APS is adapted to calculate
the FPS. In the other faculties, the APS equals the FPS.

APPLICATION FEE

FACULTY

This is the fee required as part of your application. It is nonrefundable, even if your application is unsuccessful.

A faculty is a grouping of departments that offers specific
degree, diploma and certificate programmes. There are six
faculties at UCT. Students register in a faculty.

APPLICANT NUMBER
An alpha-numeric ‘number’ will be allocated to you to
identify and track your application. It normally consists
of the first three consonants of your surname, and the
first three characters of your first name, followed by a
three digit number. It is important that you quote this

MATRICULATION / MATRICULATION ENDORSEMENT
If you obtain a NSC endorsed for bachelors degree study you
do not need a matriculation certificate or a certificate of
exemption. If your school-leaving certificate is from another

7

REDRESS CATEGORY

examining authority you will need to obtain a matriculation
exemption certificate.

The redress category is derived, for South African applicants
only, from the racial classification of their parents during
Apartheid.

MINIMUM ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
What you must have: for example, Mathematics is required
for admission to some programmes. These are necessary
requirements you must meet, but are not necessarily
sufficient for entry.

REGISTRATION
If you are offered a study place, you must register as a student
before the start of the first term. We call this registration.
Registration gives you a student status, commits you to a
certain programme, and commits you to pay fees for it.

NATIONAL BENCHMARK TESTS (NBTS)
Most undergraduate applicants who normally reside, or
have completed/are completing schooling, in South Africa
must write the NBTs. Applicants applying for admission to a
programme in the Faculty of Health Sciences, excluding and
the Advanced Diploma in Cosmetic Formulation Science,
and all applicants to the undergraduate LLB programme
must write the NBTs, wherever they may reside.

SCHOOL SUBJECT REQUIREMENTS
The subjects and ratings that you must obtain to be
considered for admission for a particular degree, diploma or
certificate programme. Obtaining the NSC with bachelors
endorsement and meeting the minimum admission
requirement does not guarantee you admission to UCT.

NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE (NSC)

UNDERGRADUATE

Since 2008, South African school-leavers write the NSC
examinations. This may be under the auspices of one of three
examining authorities: The Department of Basic Education
(DBE), the Independent Examinations Board (IEB) or the
South African Comprehensive Assessment Institute (SACAI).
Scores in this prospectus are calculated for NSC applicants.

Denoting or relating to a first qualification. This prospectus
is intended for you if you wish to be admitted to an
undergraduate programme at UCT.

WEIGHTED POINTS SCORE (WPS)
For South African NSC applicants only, this is the faculty
points score weighted by the disadvantage factor applicable
to each applicant.

PROGRAMME
Students enter a degree, diploma or certificate programme,
which is a combination of subjects that have been
constructed to provide you with a particular knowledge and
skills base, and leads to a qualification.

GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS OF COMMON
APPLICATION-RELATED TERMS
A

Level Advanced Level

AP

Advanced Programme

AL

APS
AS

FPS

GCSE
IB SL

IB HL

IGCSE
NBT

NSC

NSSC
QL

WPS

ZIMSEC

8

Academic Literacy

Admission Points Score

Advanced Subsidiary Level
Faculty Points Score

General Certificate of Secondary Education
International Baccalaureate Standard Level
International Baccalaureate Higher Level
International General Certificate of

Secondary Education

National Benchmark Tests

National Senior Certificate

Namibian Senior School Certificate
Quantitative Literacy

Weighted Points Score

Zimbabwean Schools Examination Council

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

DISCOVERING UCT
This prospectus provides a comprehensive introduction to
life at the University of Cape Town (UCT), offering a glimpse
into the vibrant academic and campus experiences that define our institution. We host a variety of in-person events
designed to give prospective students and their families the
opportunity to explore our campuses and immerse themselves in the UCT experience.

•

UCT OPEN DAY

Each year, UCT hosts an Open Day specifically designed for
secondary school learners in grades 10, 11, and 12, along with
their families and teachers. The 2025 Open Day is scheduled
for 12 April 2025 and will take place across three of our
campuses: Upper, Middle, and Health Science campuses.
This event offers an invaluable opportunity to experience
UCT firsthand, engage with faculty members, and gain indepth insights into our diverse academic programs and the
unique campus life we offer.

and results, helping you navigate your academic
journey with confidence
Campus tours, which provide an in-depth look at our
Middle and Upper campuses, are available Monday to
Friday from 10:00 to 11:00 and 14:00 to 15:00. These
tours are open to prospective applicants in grades
10, 11, or 12, along with their families or schools. Please
note that requests must be submitted directly by the
applicants or their school counsellors, and not by travel
agents.

PARENTS’ ORIENTATION

Parents of new undergraduate students holding firm offers
are invited to participate in our annual Parents’ Orientation
event. This exclusive session includes a formal address by
the Vice-Chancellor, opportunities to meet with Deans,
and personal consultations for students to discuss
their academic journey. Please note that only parents of
students with confirmed firm offers are eligible to attend.

THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE

Our Admissions Office operates Monday to Friday from
08:30 to 16:30, with extended hours on Thursdays from
09:30 to 16:30. We are committed to offering a wide range
of services to support prospective students, including:
• Presentations to grade 11 and 12 learners at schools
• Subject-choice talks specifically designed for grade 9
learners
• Expert advice on study options and academic
pathways, specifically tailored to your current subjects

CONTACT US

For further information on visiting UCT, or to access the
services listed above, please do not hesitate to contact
the Admissions Office:
Tel:
+27 (0)21 650 2128
Email:
admissions@uct.ac.za
Website: www.uct.ac.za

9

ABOUT CAPE TOWN AND UCT
research. UCT is the oldest university in South Africa
and is one of the leading research universities on the
African continent. UCT has over 29 000 students, of
whom 30% are postgraduates. Some 5 500 degrees
and diplomas are awarded each year in our six faculties:
Commerce, Engineering & the Built Environment,
Health Sciences, Humanities, Law and Science.

One of the most popular destinations in the world,
Cape Town has it all. With beaches, mountains, forests
and UCT on your doorstep, Cape Town is a historic,
cosmopolitan city with a vibrant, contemporary
culture of music and art, as well as a host of sport and
leisure activities.
UCT’s main campus lies on the lower slopes of Devil’s
Peak in the Cape Peninsula. ThePeninsula and its
environs feature some of the most breath-taking
scenery in the world and offer you a unique natural
environment to explore during your leisure time.
Many sports are offered at UCT and there is an active
cultural life, both on campus and in and around the
city. Cape Town forms the hub of the Western Cape,
and it is the centre of politics, business, industry and
services in the region. This region provides
an ideal ‘laboratory’ for much of
UCT’s teaching and

We pride ourself on our diverse student body, which
reflects the many cultures and backgrounds of the
region. We welcome international students and are
currently home to over 5 000 international students
from over 100 countries.
UCT has a tradition of academic excellence
and research that is respected world-wide.Past
students include five Nobel Laureates – Max Theiler,
Alan Cormack, Sir Aaron Klug,Ralph Bunche and
J M Coetzee.

10

KEY DATES
15
JAN

2025

01
APR

2026
15
•
•

NOV

All applications open
Registration for the
National Benchmark
Tests (NBTs) open.

31
OCT

12
APR

•

UCT Open Day.

04
31
JUL

•

OCT

• All undergraduate
applications close.
We do not accept late
applications.
• Applications for student
housing close.
• Final date to submit the
Bachelor of Architectural
Studies (BAS) portfolio
• The last date to write
the NBTs if you wish
to be considered for
a conditional offer by
the Faculty of Health
Sciences.

30

SEPT

31
AUG

11

Final CAIE, IB, NSSC and ZIMSEC
results from the November 2025
session are due.

• Deadline for international applicants
to attract an offer of admission. This is
necessary to allow for sufficient time
to obtain a study visa.

• For applicants finishing secondary
school in 2025, all grade 12 interim
results, or predicted scores in the
case of non-NSC candidates, are due.
• Interim and past transcripts for
transferring applicants are due.
•

The final date to write the
NBTs for admission to UCT.

• Proof of English language
proficiency is due.
• Supporting documents for all
international applicants are now due.
These include, but are not limited
to: predicted grades, transcripts,
English translations of documents,
and secondary school results.
Incomplete applications will be
cancelled by 15 November.
• Closing date for undergraduate
programme changes. Requests must
be sent to admissions@uct.ac.za
with the subject line “Request for
programme change”.
• Bachelor of Arts in Fine Art (BA(FA))
portfolios are due.

NB : ALL COPY IS LAST YEARS - ONLY ALL YEARS HAVE BEEN CHANGE UP BY 1 YEARS.
PAGES NO NEED TO ALL BE CHANGE STILL

APPLICATION
& ADMISSION
TO UCT

ADMISSIONS POLICY
Our admissions policy is designed to ensure that top achievers are offered
places at UCT, and to ensure a diverse student body by incorporating
measures for redress and measures to ensure that the incoming cohort
increasingly reflects the demographic diversity of our country.
We start by:
• setting minimum levels of academic achievement for each programme,
below which we will not offer a place;
• setting the class size for each programme and
• setting an aspirational demographic enrolment target for each
programme; and determining selection methods.

|

THE FACULTY POINTS SCORE

•
•

The Faculty Points Score (FPS) (calculated in different ways
to meet the needs of each faculty) is used to rank applicants;
a small number of the best applicants will be offered places
on the basis of the FPS.

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

disadvantage and this we call Band B.
select the remaining members of the class in FPS rank
order from redress categories in order to constitute
each class for diversity; this we call Band C.

WHAT IS THE APPLICATION FEE?
South African and SADC applicants must pay a non-refundable
application fee of R100. Other international applicants are
required to pay an application fee of R300. Application fees
will not be refunded under any circumstances.

REDRESS ON THE BASIS OF DISADVANTAGE
As our South African history has been, and in many cases
continues to be, one of gross inequality usually structured
along racial lines, a key element of our admissions policy is to
provide for redress for South African citizens and permanent
residents on the basis of disadvantage. To do this we look at
the school the applicant attends/attended and their family
background. This yields a disadvantage factor, expressed as
a percentage from 0% to 10% (or for the programmes in the
Faculty of Health Sciences, from 0% to 20%).

Paying your application fee does not mean you will be offered a
place to study at UCT. The application fee may be paid by direct
deposit, electronic funds transfer (EFT) or credit card. Cash
payments may only be made at the Cashiers Office, Kramer
Building, Cross Campus Road, Middle Campus, UCT. Credit card
payments must be made online at
payments.uct.ac.za/admissions/ .
Currently registered UCT students, UCT graduates and Semester
Study Abroad applicants do not pay an application fee.

We add this percentage of the FPS to the FPS to derive the
weighted Faculty Point Score (WPS). For more information
visit Disadvantage Factor Calculator.

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOUR APPLICATION HAS BEEN
SUBMITTED?

In other words, if the disadvantage factor is 7%, we calculate
the WPS as follows: WPS = FPS + (7% X FPS).

You will get an email acknowledgement setting out what you
have to do next. If you apply by completing a paper application
form, and you do not have an email address, we will write to you,
acknowledging receipt and asking you to check the data we
have captured from your form. Once we have your application
our faculties will consider it and all updates/decisions will be
sent to your registered email address.

If there is a zero redress factor (no school or family
disadvantage or an international applicant) then the factor is
0% and WPS = FPS + 0 = FPS.

REDRESS FOR DIVERSITY
We categorise all South African applicants (not international
applicants) according to the categorisation of their parents’
race under apartheid. This allows us to have a proxy for the
applicant’s disadvantage.

When we acknowledge receipt of your application, we will
give you your applicant number, (which is also your username,
campus ID and student number) and password for access to
Student Self-Service. At any stage you will be able to track the
status of your application, using these log-in credentials. If all
your applications are cancelled/denied, you will no longer have
access to Student Self-Service. Use your applicant number
when you contact us as it will help us track and update your
application. You may check the status of your application and
update your application, as required, at
studentsonline.uct.ac.za

We use these categories to give priority in making selection
decisions to ensure that we meet the diversity targets we set
for each programme/plan.
These are the four designated redress categories used to
give effect to our admissions policy.
Redress category 1: An applicant with at least one parent
classified as Black under apartheid
Redress category 2: An applicant with at least one parent
classified as Coloured (and the other not as Black) under
apartheid
Redress category 3: An applicant with at least one parent
classified as Indian (and the other not as Black or Coloured)
under apartheid
Redress category 4: An applicant with at least one parent
classified as Chinese (and the other not as Black, Coloured or
Indian) under apartheid

Your application will have one of several statuses while it is
being processed. These include:
•
Application submitted: typically shortly after we first
receive your application
•
Decision deferred: for any number of reasons, we may not
be able to take a decision to admit or deny an application
yet because we do not have enough information. An
example would be that the applicant’s performance
at school is not yet strong enough to attract an offer of
admission
•
Conditional offer: we have made an offer of admission,
based on certain conditions being met
•
Firm offer: we have made a firm offer of admission, without
any conditions
•
Deny: the application is unsuccessful
•
Waitlisted: you have met all the criteria for admission, but
we are unable to make you an offer because, for example,
the applicant pool is very competitive

SELECTION METHODS
When making offers, we:
•
select a proportion of the programme/plan using the
unweighted FPS; this we call Band A.
•
select a proportion (usually a bigger proportion) of the
class using the weighted score – the WPS – in which we
make a significant allowance for school and/or family

13

HOW TO APPLY
Apply online at
http://applyonline.uct.ac.za
Alternatively, download the application
form, from our site:
http://www.students.uct.ac.za/students/
applications/apply/forms You must
submit only one application.
Your application allows you to choose two
programmes. It is in your interest to seek
advice about your programme choices,
since this selection may affect your
chances of admission.
When you apply to UCT, your application
will be dealt with by the Admissions Office
and by the Faculty that offers your choice
of study.
You can contact the Admissions Office at
any time before or during the application
process, and we will be happy to give you
help or advice.

YOU CAN CONTACT US:
Tel:
Email:
Website:
Twitter:

+27 (0)21 650 2128
admissions@uct.ac.za
www.uct.ac.za
@uctadmissions

FOLLOW US ON YOUTUBE AT

https://www.youtube.com/c/UCTAdmiss

EARLY CONDITIONAL OFFERS
Conditional offers are offers of admission which are dependent on you
meeting one or more conditions. We will specify such conditions to
you in our communication. We make conditional offers throughout the
application cycle.
For NSC applicants, conditional offers will usually (but not necessarily)
be made once a strong enough set of internal examination results and
the NBT results are available. Conditional offers will only be confirmed
once the final FPS and NBT results are available, and provided both
the FPS and NBT results confirm that the admission criteria have been
satisfied. For applicants doing international secondary school leaving
qualifications, we typically require all possible submissions before final
secondary school leaving results are available. Examples of important
submissions to support conditional offers are predicted scores, IGCSE
results and SAT results.

SCORE CALCULATIONS FOR NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE (NSC)
APPLICANTS ONLY
For applicants writing the NSC we use an Admission Points Score (APS), a
Faculty Points Score (FPS) and, in the case of South African applicants, a
Weighted Points Score (WPS) to assess your performance at school. The
scores are described in detail on the next pages.
The percentages achieved in NSC examinations (preliminary and final
examinations) will be allocated an admissions score equal to that
percentage.
To calculate your APS (a score out of a maximum of 600), add English
and the five best other subjects percentages, excluding Life Orientation
and scores for AP subjects, but including any other required subject(s)
for the relevant programme. (In other words, for a programme where
Mathematics and Physical Sciences are required, take the scores for
English, Mathematics, Physical Sciences and the next best three subjects
other than Life Orientation and AP subjects to calculate your APS.) Results
below 40% for any subject do not attract a score. In order to determine
which subjects are required for admission to particular programmes,
refer to the faculty sections that follow.

14

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

EXAMPLES OF POINTS SCORE CALCULATIONS FOR NSC APPLICANTS
Note: Technical Mathematics and Technical Science may not be used as substitutes for Mathematics and
Physical Sciences respectively. Examples of points score calculations for NSC applicants
1. FACULTIES OF COMMERCE, ENGINEERING & THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT, HUMANITIES AND LAW
In these faculties, the FPS is calculated out of 600.
English Home Language
isiXhosa First Additional Language
Mathematics
Physical Sciences
Geography
Accounting
Life Orientation

75%
70%
84%
86%
79%
69%
80%

=
=
=
=
=
=
=

75 pts
70 pts
84 pts
86 pts
79 pts
69 pts
0 pts

Total
FPS

=
=

463/600
463

Use the disadvantage factor to derive the weighted score: or the purpose of this example the disadvantage factor is 10%.
Disadvantage factor
=
10% (46)		
WPS
=
509 (463+46) [for South African applicants only]

2. FACULTY OF HEALTH SCIENCES
The FPS is calculated out of 900.

English Home Language
isiXhosa First Additional Language
Mathematics
Life Sciences
Physical Sciences
Design
Life Orientation
NBT Scores of:

75%
=
75 pts
70%
=
70 pts
84%
=
84 pts
86%
=
86 pts
79%
=
79 pts
69%
=
69 pts
80%
=
0 pts
APS
=
463/600
AL:		 55%
QL:		 60%
MAT:		 50%

Make a total 165/300, added to 463

FPS
= 628/900
Use the disadvantage factor to derive the weighted score: for the purpose of this example the disadvantage factor is 20%.
Add 20% as follows:
Disadvantage factor = 20% x FPS = 20% x 628 = 125.6
WPS = 754 (628+125.6) [for South African applicants only]

3. FACULTY OF SCIENCE

The FPS is calculated out of 800.
English Home Language
isiXhosa First Additional Language
Mathematics
Physical Sciences
Consumer Studies
Engineering Graphics & Design
Life Orientation

75%
70%
84%
86%
79%
69%
80%

=
=
=
=
=
=
=

75 pts
70 pts
84 pts
86 pts
79 pts
69 pts
0 pts

APS

=

463/600

Scores for Mathematics and Physical Sciences are doubled; therefore, 170 (84+86)
is added to the APS: 		
FPS
= 633 /800
Use the disadvantage factor to derive the weighted score: for the purpose of this example the disadvantage factor is 0%.
Disadvantage factor = 0%					
WPS = 633 (633+0)
			
[for South African applicants only]

15

SCORE CALCULATION FOR SELECTED NON-SOUTH
AFRICAN EXAMINING AUTHORITIES

ADMISSION POINTS TABLE
Points IGCSE

NSSC
HL

Cambridge Cambridge IB SL IB HL
AS-LEVELS A-LEVELS

10

A

7

9

B

6

8

1

A

C

7

5

7

2

B

D

6

4

3

C

E

5

3

6

A

5

B

D

4

C

E

4

To calculate your FPS, the APS will be adjusted as described
below in the calculation examples. Two faculties (Health
Sciences and Science) adjust the APS when calculating
the FPS. For the rest (Commerce, Engineering & the Built
Environment, Humanities and Law), the APS equals the FPS.
In order to calculate the FPS for the Faculty of Science, double
the scores achieved for Mathematics and Physical Sciences
(the Science FPS is out of 800). Where an applicant has not
completed Physical Sciences, Information Technology or Life
Sciences may be doubled (this is only allowed for certain
majors as stipulated in the faculty entry).
When calculating the FPS for the Faculty of Health Sciences
(a score out of a maximum of 900), add the sum of the three
NBT scores to the APS.
For South African applicants only, in order to calculate the
WPS, adjust the FPS by the disadvantage factor applicable
to you. This is a percentage from 0% to 10%, except for
applications for admission to the programmes in the Faculty
of Health Sciences, where the range is from 0% to 20%.

GENERAL ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION TO
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES
In order to be considered for admission to a programme, an
applicant must, in the first instance, be eligible for consideration.
As an undergraduate applicant to UCT you must be aware of
the following, and satisfy criteria which apply to you.
•
National Senior Certificate (NSC) applicants must,
for admission to higher certificate, diploma or degree
programmes have met the NSC requirements for
such endorsement.If you do not meet the minimum
requirements for UCT admission but you are 23 years or
older and have a Grade 12 (school-leaving) certificate, you
may qualify for a mature age exemption. If you fall into this
category, you should discuss the possibility of conditional
exemption with the relevant faculty office. Applicants with

16

mature age exemption are not considered for programmes
offered in the Faculties of Health Sciences or Law.
•
Applicants with non-South African secondary school
leaving certificates must have met the requirements for
matriculation exemption.
•
All applicants, in the final secondary school leaving
assessment, must have achieved the minimum criteria
for admission to the programme/s of their choice.
These include:
- the required APS, FPS or WPS as it may apply to the
		 programme of choice
- performance for required secondary school subjects
- performances in the applicable components of the
		NBTs
- any other requirements, as outlined in the faculty
		 sections, that may be applicable to specific 		
		programmes.

The table above is an indication of how we rate results for
subjects, taken at various levels, for some school-leaving
qualifications. In some faculties we do not use an APS for
admission, but subject requirements are published as
minimum requirements, and applications are considered
individually.
Please note, applicants require six different subjects,
excluding Life Orientation and any of the AP subjects in order
to apply.
Current UCT students applying for undergraduate transfers
If you are currently registered for an undergraduate
programme at UCT, and wish to transfer to another faculty
other than Health Sciences or another programme in your
faculty, you are not required to submit a new application but
must consult with the faculty that you wish to transfer to. If
you wish to transfer to the Faculty of Health Sciences, you
must apply online on or before 31 July 2025.

|

TRANSFERRING STUDENTS

•

If you are studying at, or completed studies at, another higher education institution, you will be considered on the basis
of your school-leaving results and your higher education results. In addition, transferring applicants are required to write
the NBTs, and may be asked to submit a letter of motivation. To be considered for admission, you must have met the
school-leaving requirements and have a good academic record and satisfactory conduct from your previous institution.
You will need to submit an interim academic transcript and
a certificate of good conduct with your application, and your
final, year-end transcript as soon as they are available and no
later than 31 December 2025.

•

•

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

A valid (no more than 2 years old) TOEFL iBT Score Report
with an overall score of 88 or above, with at least 19 in
Listening, 19 in Writing, 20 in Reading, and 22 in Speaking.
A valid (no more than 2 years old) IELTS Academic Test
Report Form with an overall score of band 6.5 or above,
with at least 6.0 in each component.
A valid (no more than 2 years old) PTE Academic Score
Report with an overall score of 67 or above, with at least
59 in each communicative skills component.

For more information about the TOEFL (including information
on how to register for the tests and dates when tests are
held), use one of the following contacts:
Email: 		 toefl@ets.org
Website: www.toefl.org
Information on TOEFL is also available from the American
Embassy or Consulate in your country.

APPLICANTS REPEATING NSC SUBJECTS
For applicants that are repeating one or more NSC subjects,
we will use your best mark for that subject, when evaluating
your application.

Information about the IELTS may be obtained from the
British Council at the British Embassy or Consulate in your
country. Information on IELTS is also available from the
British Council, South Africa:
Tel: 		 +27 11 560 9300
Email: 		 ssa.enquiries@britishcouncil.org
Website: www.britishcouncil.org.za/exam/ielts

ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY
English language proficiency is a requirement for study at
UCT. All international students for whom English is not a first/
home language or have not passed English at NSC Grade 12,
AS-level, IGCSE, IB, NSSC, ZIMSEC level or equivalent
secondary school-leaving qualification from an English
medium-of-instruction institution must provide proof of
English language proficiency.

UCT’S ENGLISH LANGUAGE ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS ARE

If you are writing an English proficiency test you must ensure
that the test score is received by our Admissions Office no
later than 30 September 2025.

As part of your application to study at UCT, you must submit
one of the following:
•
A valid (no more than 3 years old) NBT Academic
Literacy Test Plus report with an overall score of Upper
Intermediate or above. The NBTs are offered by the
Centre for Educational Assessments (CEA) and can be
arranged to be taken anywhere in the world.
•
(Visit www.nbt.ac.za for details)

The NBTs are offered by the Centre for Educational
Assessments (CEA) and can be arranged to be taken
anywhere in the world, visit www.nbt.ac.za for details. For
graduate applicants, this is 68% (proficient) or above on
the Academic Literacy Plus (AL+) and 70% (proficient) or
above on the Quantitative Literacy Plus (QL+) Tests, unless
otherwise stipulated.

17

NATIONAL
BENCHMARK
TESTS

Admissions and placement tests have been used at UCT for over
30 years. The National Benchmark Tests (NBTs) are administered by
the Centre for Educational Assessment (CEA).
All undergraduate applicants who are normally resident or at
school in South Africa must write the NBTs, and all applicants to
programmes in the Faculty of Health Sciences must write the NBTs
wherever they reside. International applicants to undergrad LLB
must write the AL part of the NBT. Applicants are responsible for the
costs of writing the NBTs. Information regarding the use of the test
scores in each faculty can be found in the faculty pages.

|

WHAT ARE THE NATIONAL BENCHMARK TESTS?

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

Persons with disabilities must tick the box that indicates
that they have a disability. They will then be advised to email
nbt@uct.ac.za so that they can be contacted for discussions
around the reasonable accommodations required.

The NBTs are three multiple-choice tests written as a
combined Academic Literacy and Quantitative Literacy
test and a separate Mathematics test. The Academic and
Quantitative Literacy Test (AQL) is a three-hour test which
consists of an Academic and a Quantitative Literacy (QL)
section. The results of the two sections of the test are
reported separately.

The final date to write the NBTs for admission to UCT is
4 October 2025. If you wish to be considered for a conditional
offer by the Faculty of Health Sciences, you must write the
NBTs by 31 July 2025; if you write the NBTs after 31 July, you
will only be considered for an offer in early 2026 after the
final NSC examination results are received. In summary, our
advice to you is to:
•
write the NBTs on the day for which you registered, as
you are liable for the fees regardless of whether you
write or not
•
rewrite the NBTs if you wish to improve your results.
Whether you write once or twice, your results for tests
written after 4 October 2025 may not be considered at
UCT.

The Academic Literacy (AL) Test tests your capacity to
engage successfully with the demands of academic study
in the language of instruction which is English at UCT. The
Quantitative Literacy (QL) Test targets your ability to manage
situations or solve problems in a real context that is relevant to
higher education study, using basic quantitative information
that may be presented verbally, graphically, in tabular or
symbolic form. The Mathematics Test is a three-hour test
which targets a writer’s ability related to mathematical
concepts formally regarded as part of the secondary school
curriculum relevant for Higher Education studies.

HOW ARE THE TEST RESULTS USED?

WHO WRITES WHAT?

The test results are used in addition to secondary schoolleaving academic performance and do not replace the use
of school-leaving results. In the case of applications to the
Faculty of Health Sciences, the National Benchmark Test
results make up a specific proportion of an applicant’s
overall Faculty Points Score. (See the Faculty specific section
in this prospectus for more information).

Applicants to the Faculties of Humanities, Commerce and
Law write the Academic and Quantitative Literacy test only.
Applicants to Health Sciences, Science and Engineering
write the Academic and Quantitative Literacy test as well as
the Mathematics test. The completion of the Mathematics
syllabus is not a prerequisite for writing the Mathematics Test.

REGISTERING FOR YOUR NATIONAL BENCHMARK TESTS

The NBT results may also be used to decide admission to an
extended or foundation programme.

Write the NBTs as early as possible in 2025.

CAN I WRITE THE NBTS OUTSIDE OF SOUTH AFRICA?

Note: The 2025 NBT test calendar has twenty three test dates.
Four of these test dates are Online NBT test sessions and
nineteen sessions will be held at physical venues for pencil and
paper NBT tests.

Yes. Writing the NBTs in a remote venue, or outside of South
Africa Remote sessions are run when someone is unable
to write online or at an institution that generally facilitates
the National Benchmark Test sessions.
Usually, these are for test writers in
another country or in an area too remote
to be able to make a trip of a reasonable
distance to the nearest testing centre,
and where a suitable internet connection
is not available. Should you wish to
request a remote venue, please contact
the NBT Project at nbtremote@uct.ac.za.
PROVISION FOR CANDIDATES WITH
DISABILITIES
Provision is made for test candidates
with disabilities. We have successfully
accommodated candidates who are
blind, visually, hearing or mobility/
physically impaired, have a learning
disability, or have a chronic illness that
requires
special
accommodations.
Time concessions, readers, scribes, and
braille versions of the tests have been
made available. Please contact the NBT
Helpdesk for further information and for
special accommodations.

19

HOW TO REGISTER FOR NBTS

•

You may register online at www.nbt.ac.za. After reading the
general information and the FAQs, select the ‘Book a test’
option and follow all instructions. Note that you will need
your SA identity number or non-SA passport number in order
to register.

WHAT MUST YOU TAKE TO THE TESTS?

If you encounter problems during the registration process,
call +27 (0)21 650 3523 or send an email to nbt@uct.ac.za
for assistance.

•
•
•
•
•

•

THE NBT HELPDESK IS STAFFED
From 08:00 to 16:00 weekdays and
From 07:00 to 10:00 on national test days
(Full support is available during online sessions).

we will use your best NBT results for each of AL, QL
and MAT.

Online tests have a minimum computing requirements
that are detailed on the NBT website.
your SA identity or non-SA passport
lunch (not all physical venues are close to shops)
HB pencil and eraser
bus/train/taxi fare for returning home
please note that you will not be allowed to use
calculators, dictionaries or rulers in any of the tests.

2025 TEST VENUES
NBTs are available online in a secure proctored environment,
or as pencil and paper tests.

THE DAY OF THE TESTS
For the pencil and paper tests of the NBTs, please check &
confirm venues on the website at www.nbt.ac.za. The testing
venues will be clearly sign posted on the days the tests are
written. The NBT Project reserves the right to change the
venue as circumstances require.

The tests begin at 08h00 at many venues throughout South
Africa. The Academic and Quantitative Literacy (AQL) test is
written in the morning session and the Mathematics (MAT)
test in the afternoon.
If both tests are written, you will probably complete them at
about 17h00. They must also be written at the same sitting.
Testing dates and venues are available on the NBT web site
at www.nbt.ac.za. Alternatively please call the NBT Project.

HOW DO YOU GET YOUR TEST RESULTS?
About four weeks after writing, you may access your results
on the NBT website. Log on using your SA identity number
or non-SA passport number. Your scores will also be sent to
UCT for use in processing your application.

MAY I WRITE THE NBTS MORE THAN ONCE?
You may attempt the NBTs at most twice in one test cycle,
but:
•
you will have to register for each attempt;
•
you will have to pay the NBT test fee each time you do so;
•
you will receive one unique registration number for both
NBT attempts;
•
If you write a second time, and the admission
requirements applicable to you require you to write the
AQL and Mathematics tests (three domains), you must
rewrite both tests;

NBT CONTACT INFORMATION
Tel:
Email:
Website:
Twitter:
Instagram:

+27 (0)21 650 3523
nbt@uct.ac.za
www.nbt.ac.za
@nbt_za
@nbts_sa

DEGREE BENCHMARK PERFORMANCE LEVELS
Academic Literacy

Quantitative Literacy

Minimum

Maximum

Minimum

Maximum

Minimum

Maximum

Proficient

71

100

70

100

69

100

Intermediate

35

70

38

69

35

68

Basic

0

34

0

37

0

34

Benchmark Performance
Levels

Mathematics

DEGREE BENCHMARK PERFORMANCE LEVELSSPLIT INTO UPPER AND LOWER BOUNDARIES*
Benchmark Performance
Levels

Academic Literacy

Quantitative Literacy

Mathematics

Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum

Proficient Upper

86

100

86

100

85

100

Proficient Lower

71

85

70

85

69

84

Intermediate Upper

53

70

54

69

52

68

Intermediate Lower

35

52

38

53

35

51

Basic Upper

18

34

19

37

18

34

Basic Lower

0

17

0

18

0

17

20

DIPLOMA AND HIGHER CERTIFICATE BENCHMARK PERFORMANCE LEVELS
Academic Literacy

Quantitative Literacy

Minimum

Maximum

Minimum

Maximum

Minimum

Maximum

Proficient

63

100

64

100

62

100

Intermediate

32

62

34

63

33

61

Basic

0

31

0

33

0

32

Benchmark Performance
Levels

Mathematics

DIPLOMA AND HIGHER CERTIFICATE BENCHMARK PERFORMANCE LEVELS SPLIT
INTO UPPER AND LOWER BOUNDARIES*
Benchmark Performance
Levels

Academic Literacy

Quantitative Literacy

Mathematics

Minimum

Maximum

Minimum

Maximum

Minimum

Maximum

Proficient Upper

82

100

83

100

82

100

Proficient Lower

63

81

64

82

62

81

Intermediate Upper

48

62

49

63

48

61

Intermediate Lower

32

47

34

48

33

47

Basic Upper

16

31

17

33

17

32

Basic Lower

0

15

0

16

0

16

* Equated scores are reported as a whole number percentage (i.e., rounded, with zero decimal places)

NBT DATES FOR 2025/2026 APPLICANTS

All dates contained in our publications and correspondence are subject to change.
REGISTRATION FOR ALL NBT SESSIONS OPENS 2 APRIL 2025
NBT Test Dates 2025
for 2026 Intake
May

June

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Last day to
register online
10**

20 Apr

9 Jun

17

27 Apr

17 Jun

31

11 May

30 Jun

7

18 May

7 Jul

8*

18 May

7 Jul

21**

1 Jun

21 Jul

28

8 Jun

28 Jul

5*

15 Jun

4 Aug

6

15 Jun

4 Aug

12

22 Jun

11 Aug

19

29 Jun

18 Aug

26**

6 Jul

25 Aug

2

13 Jul

1 Sep

3*

13 Jul

1 Sep

16

27 Jul

15 Sep

23

3 Aug

22 Sep

30

10 Aug

29 Sep

6

17 Aug

6 Oct

13

24 Aug

13 Oct

27

7 Sep

27 Oct

4**

14 Sep

3 Nov

*Sunday test session (Pencil Paper)
**Online test session

21

Results available
to writers

NB : ALL COPY IS LAST YEARS - ONLY ALL YEARS HAVE BEEN CHANGE UP BY 1 YEARS.
PAGES NO NEED TO ALL BE CHANGE STILL

FACULTY OF
COMMERCE

ABOUT THE FACULTY
UCT’s Commerce degrees and diplomas prepare you for the
employment needs of the expanding world of business and
professional services and equip you to participate in the
global economy.
Our undergraduate degrees meet international standards of
excellence. Whether you want to work locally, elsewhere in
Africa or overseas, change jobs or even careers, your Commerce
degree will enable you to succeed in a rapidly changing
work environment.

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT UNIT (EDU COMMERCE)

In the first year of undergraduate studies, you may choose to
move from one degree to another, changing specialisations
as you understand more about the disciplines.

https://commerce.uct.ac.za/educommerce
The Education Development Unit (EDU) focuses on
addressing the diverse educational and life experiences
of South African students, ensuring equitable access to
support and opportunities for success. This commitment
is rooted in creating an inclusive environment where every
student’s potential is nurtured and their unique journey is
valued.

WHAT WE OFFER
The Faculty of Commerce offers two undergraduate degrees,
the three year Bachelor of Commerce and the four year
Bachelor of Business Science.

BACHELOR OF BUSINESS SCIENCE (BBUSSC) &
BACHELOR OF COMMERCE (BCOM)

The EDU offers augmented degrees (standard time with
support), as well as extended degrees (longer time with extra
support), spreading the course load over an extra year.

Entry requirements are the same for both degrees. Each
degree offers a variety of specialisations to cater both for
the interests of our students and employment needs. Both
degrees are highly marketable.

The degrees and specialisations in the EDU are the same
as the mainstream programmes, and you receive the same
degree at graduation.

The first year of the BBusSc and the BCom share several
common courses in the subject areas of Accounting,
Information
Systems, Economics, Business
Law,
Mathematics, Statistics, Evidence-based Management and
Business Ethics.

AREAS OF STUDY OFFERED
ACCOUNTING
https://commerce.uct.ac.za/college-accounting
Studying accounting at university offers numerous benefits
and opportunities, whether you’re interested in pursuing a
career as an accountant, working in the public sector, nonprofit organisations, or leading a large corporate business.
Accounting skills are versatile and applicable across various
industries and sectors. A person who is honest and ethical,
committed to hard work, responsive to change, a problem
solver, an effective communicator, a critical thinker, and a
lifelong learner will make a good accountant.

The BBusSc curriculum teaches the science of business
within a field of specialisation. This includes subjects such as
People Management, Business Ethics and Strategic Thinking.
On the other hand, the BCom curriculum prepares students
for a specific field of specialisation.
As more material is covered in a BBusSc, the degree takes
four years to complete, while a BCom takes three.
The Academic Development Programme (ADP) BBusSc can
be taken over a four- or five-year period, and the ADP BCom
over a three- or four-year period through the Commerce
Education Development Unit (EDU). In the EDU, students
receive a range of additional support. You can find out more
about the EDU below.

School accounting emphasises the recording of transactions.
At university, accounting studies focus on the decisionmaking that influences those transactions, communicating
financial information to a broader audience outside the
organisation, and interrogating financial information to
ensure reliability. Studying accounting helps you to develop
strong analytical and problem-solving skills. You’ll learn
how to interpret financial data, analyse trends, and make
informed decisions based on quantitative information,
which are valuable skills in many professions.

If you are offered a place in Commerce you can choose
either degree, BCom or BBusSc and any specialisation for
which you meet the entrance requirements.

A CA(SA) is someone who becomes a chartered
accountant through the South African Institute of
Chartered Accountants (SAICA). Commerce offers two
undergraduate programmes that allow students to
follow the CA(SA) path – the three-year BCom Financial
Accounting: Chartered Accountant and the four-year
BBusSc Financial Accounting: Finance with Accounting.
After either of these undergraduate degrees, students
need to complete a one-year Postgraduate Diploma in
Accounting (PGDA), followed by a three-year training
contract and two SAICA qualifying professional exams
(including an exam preparation course).
The General Accounting option is designed for the
student who does not wish to pursue the CA(SA)
designation but may still be interested in obtaining
a Chartered Accountant designation from other

23

international professional bodies such as the Association
of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) or the Chartered
Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).

applications in the investment and financial industries. Career
options include fields like investment banking, derivatives
trading, and quantitative asset management.

Graduates of either stream may go into areas of commercial
specialisation such as tax advisory, internal audit, financial
consulting, or external audit and assurance, although certain
professions may require specific professional designations
such as CA(SA).

COMPUTER SCIENCE

ACTUARIAL SCIENCE
https://commerce.uct.ac.za/actuarial-science
Actuaries use statistical techniques to solve financial and
business problems. They evaluate uncertain financial risks.
Quantifying uncertainty helps individuals and companies
proactively manage risk and ensure they can withstand
future adverse events. Actuaries operate within
a strict professional and ethical framework.
Actuaries have an extensive skill set used in
insurance, pensions, investments, banking,
health care, risk management, and other
areas.
Actuarial Science is suited to students
with strong technical and mathematical
aptitude who are willing to undertake
years of exacting study and have a welldisciplined approach to problem-solving.
Students who graduate within this
specialisation are particularly
well prepared for further
study to obtain the
prestigious
FASSA
(Fellow of the Actuarial
Society
of
South
Africa) qualification.
Quantitative Finance
shares the same
foundations
as
Actuarial Science,
but with more
emphasis
on

24

https://sit.uct.ac.za/
Computer Science is about the creation of computer software
using programming languages, which is required for economic,
social and for human development in every country. Computer
Scientists have the ability to design and develop software,
to understand the concepts of artificial intelligence, and to
mathematically solve software challenges.
Both the BBusSc in Computer Science and the BCom
in Information Systems and Computer Science provide
students with a combination of computer science and
business skills, enabling graduates to fulfil a variety of roles
in industry, across all sectors.

ECONOMICS
https://commerce.uct.ac.za/school-economics
All Economics options give an excellent grounding in the areas
of expertise that professional economists and managers need,
such as formulating economic policy, general economic and
financial analysis and the management of portfolios. The
Economics specialisation is designed for students who wish to
experience a broad fundamental education in Commerce or
who want to become professional economists.
We offer the following Economics options:
Politics, Philosophy and Economics (PPE): this focuses on
the special problems, both practical and ethical, raised for
developing countries by the globalisation of trade and markets.
Economics and Statistics: this is oriented towards quantitative
economics and statistical methods, providing students with
the skills to analyse and interpret economic and financial data.
Economics and Finance: this focuses on financial issues and
provides students with the skills needed to operate in the
world of finance.
Economics with Law: this is intended for students who are
interested in a law career with a commercial background.
Students who want to become an attorney or advocate after
completing this undergraduate degree can apply to do a twoyear postgraduate LLB degree in the Faculty of Law.
Economics and Statistics: this more numerate specialisation
combines both economics and statistics, giving students a
deeper understanding of the analysis and presentation of data.

|

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

the opportunity to tailor the degree to their specific
requirements. The combination of academic rigour, breadth
and flexibility enables students to leverage their strengths
and interests and makes graduates attractive to employers.

https://sit.uct.ac.za/
The Information Systems discipline investigates how
computers and communication technologies can be used
to address the information needs of modern organisations.
Information systems are based on computers and IT
infrastructure that assist us in our daily lives. Information
systems are around us - throughout organisations and
society. People interact with them daily; when using mobile
phone apps, posting messages on social media, booking a
flight ticket online, or even ordering an Uber. Organisations
use information systems to deliver better customer service,
improve business processes and make better decisions
through sophisticated analysis and visualisation of data.

MARKETING STUDIES
https://commerce.uct.ac.za/marketing-studies
Marketing is concerned with creating the revenue streams
crucial to the success of businesses, non-governmental
organisations and public sector enterprises. Marketers
are adept at identifying and serving customers’ needs,
managing communications in a digital enabled workplace
and ensuring positive customer experience.
Specialists work in a wide variety of marketing-related
roles across industries, including product manager, brand
manager, social media marketer, market researcher,
marketing manager, advertising executive and public
relations manager.

Information Systems professionals play an essential role
by optimising new and existing information technologies
to design and develop innovative solutions for the benefit
of organisations and society.The curriculum deals not
only with the information technologies but also imparts
students with the skills to analyse user requirements and
develop information systems. The Information Systems
curriculum allows students to cover this exciting and
expanding field. This specialisation maintains a balance
between the technical (hardware and software) aspects of
information systems and the human side of the discipline.
There is a demand for qualified Information Systems
professionals.

ORGANISATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY
https://commerce.uct.ac.za/organisational-psychology
Organisational Psychology, also known as Industrial
Psychology, applies psychological theories, principles, and
research to the workplace context. It examines individual
and group behaviour within organisations and seeks to
enhance people management practices. Practitioners
work in various areas ranging from change management,
employee relations, learning and development to
human resources management, talent management,
diversity and inclusion, organisational strategy, employee
relations, learning and development to human resources
management - across diverse sectors: corporate business,
government, NGOs, and management consultancies.

FINANCE
https://commerce.uct.ac.za/department-finance-tax
In Finance, students develop the skills needed to source,
allocate and invest funds, which are essential for making
sound investment decisions that are fundamental to
the growth and success of any organisation and country.
Finance specialists often work in the investment industry
in fields such as asset management, in public or corporate
finance and the financial sector in general. Graduates
are employed in roles such as investment manager, fund
manager, investment analyst, corporate treasurer, financial
risk specialist, and credit analyst. In Commerce, it is also
possible to study Finance in combination with either
Accounting, Economics or Information Systems as core
courses. This is ideal for students who want to specialise in
specific areas within the broader financial industry.

Students can study Organisational Psychology in
Commerce or Humanities. In both faculties, students study
the same Organisational Psychology courses. In Commerce,
students register for the four-year BBusSc in Organisational
Psychology, including business and management courses.
In Humanities, students register for a BSocSc or a BA
with a major in Organisational Psychology and a second
Humanities major.

STATISTICAL SCIENCES (STATISTICS AND DATA SCIENCE)
https://science.uct.ac.za/department-statistics
Statistics and data science plays a crucial role in
understanding the world around us and making informed
decisions. Today, vast amounts of data are generated and
collected every second from every sphere of life, such as
from sensors, devices, video/audio, networks, log files,
transactional applications, web, and social media - much
of it generated in real-time and on an enormous scale. The
demand for people with the right skills to analyse the vast
amount of data is higher than ever before.

MANAGEMENT STUDIES
https://commerce.uct.ac.za/school-management-studies
The BCom specialising in Management Studies is the
most flexible three-year degree offered in the Faculty of
Commerce. The degree requires students to take a core of
11 courses that will provide a solid foundation in Commerce.
In addition to these core courses, students must complete
electives at first-, second- and third-year levels. Students
can choose from an extensive range of disciplines offered
by Commerce and other faculties, tailoring their education
around their specific abilities and interests whilst gaining
knowledge in a range of disciplines.

Statisticians are critical players in the analytics/data
science environment. Using their quantitative skills and
by applying statistical methods, statisticians can make
predictions, draw conclusions, and test hypotheses to
better understand complex phenomena in fields such as

Management Studies is ideal for a student who wants
a more personalised combination of disciplines and

25

business (optimise business processes), marketing (predict
consumer purchasing patterns), government (use of mobile
data to optimise public transport services), medicine
(identify subsets of genes associated with a particular
disease), astronomy, ecology, language processing and
much more.

•

Data science, on the other hand, is a multidisciplinary
field that combines techniques from statistics, computer
science, and domain knowledge to extract insights and
knowledge from data. Strong analytical skills, as well as
proficiency in programming languages such as Python, R,
or SQL, along with a solid understanding of mathematical
concepts, are the key to becoming really good statisticians
and data scientists.

CRITERIA FOR ADMISSION TO A COMMERCE DEGREE VIA
MAINSTREAM OR ACADEMIC DEVELOPMENT DEGREES

•

Performance in the National Benchmark Test (NBT) in
Academic and Quantitative Literacy (AQL). The NBT
Mathematics (MAT) is not required for admission to the
Commerce Faculty.
Performance (in the secondary school-leaving
examinations) in Mathematics and English.

MAINSTREAM
Applicants who are made an offer of admission to the
faculty are entitled to register for ANY specialisation in the
Faculty for which they meet the entrance criteria. Thus, if we
have made an offer for a BCom PPE and the final NSC results
meet the entrance criteria for BBusSc Actuarial Science,
applicants will be eligible to register for BBusSc Actuarial
Science should they want to.

ADVANCED DIPLOMA IN ACTUARIAL SCIENCE
Candidates should have a first-class degree in Mathematical
Statistics from a recognised university, with at least two years
of Mathematics. Candidates with excellent grades in degrees
with related subjects may also be considered, but it is essential
that candidates have a solid grounding in Mathematics and
Mathematical Statistics (up to HEQSF Level 6).

ACADEMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES (ADP)
South African applicants with a disadvantage factor
greater than 1.0 may apply for admission to Academic
Development (AD) programmes. We may also offer places on
AD specialisations to applicants not meeting the admission
requirements for mainstream programmes, whose NBT
results indicate potential.

OVERVIEW OF REQUIREMENTS
The selection instruments we use for Commerce are:
•
Secondary school-leaving academic results

NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE (NSC) ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
The guidelines that follow do not guarantee admission. Study offers are limited for reasons of capacity. Satisfying the minimum
subject requirements does not ensure an applicant admission.
* South African applicants and permanent residents in redress categories may apply for admission directly into the Academic
Development (AD) qualifications

BACHELOR OF BUSINESS SCIENCE AND BACHELOR OF COMMERCE
All specialisations except for Actuarial Science and Computer Science
ELIGIBLE

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
FPS of 435 or above.
NBT scores of Upper Intermediate or above for AL & QL
Mathematics 60%
English HL 50%
English FAL 60%

All applicants

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
WPS of 470 or above.
NBT scores of Upper Intermediate or above for AL & QL
Mathematics 60%
English HL 50%
English FAL 60%

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

Band C
FPS

Possible admission into Education Development Unit only
FPS of 430 to 434.
NBT scores of Upper Intermediate or above for AL & QL
Mathematics 60%
English HL 50%
English FAL 60%

26

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

BACHELOR OF BUSINESS SCIENCE AND
BACHELOR OF COMMERCE

BACHELOR OF BUSINESS SCIENCE AND
BACHELOR OF COMMERCE

ELIGIBLE

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

ELIGIBLE

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
FPS of 435 or above.
NBT scores of Upper Intermediate or
above for AL & QL
Mathematics 70%
English HL 50%
English FAL 60%

All applicants

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
FPS of 500 or above.
NBT scores of Upper Intermediate or
above for AL & QL
Mathematics 80%
English HL 60%
English FAL 80% (but require
Proficient for AL & QL NBT’s)

All applicants

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
WPS of 470 or above.
NBT scores of Upper Intermediate or
above for AL & QL
Mathematics 70%
English HL 50%
English FAL 60%

All applicants

Band B
WPS

Only SA
applicants
in targeted
redress
categories

Band C
FPS

Possible admission into Education
Development Unit only
FPS of 430 to 434.
NBT scores of Upper Intermediate or
above for AL & QL
Mathematics 70%
English HL 50%
English FAL 60%

Probable admission
WPS of 525 or above.
NBT scores of Upper Intermediate or
above for AL & QL
Mathematics 80%
English HL 60%
English FAL 80% (but require
Proficient for AL & QL NBT’s)

Only SA
applicants
in targeted
redress
categories

Band C
FPS

Possible admission into Education
Development Unit only
FPS of 475 to 479.
NBT scores of Upper Intermediate or
above for AL & QL
Mathematics 80%
English HL 60%
English FAL 80% (but require
Proficient for AL & QL NBT’s)

ONLY Actuarial Science and Quantitative Finance
Qualification and Stream

ONLY Computer Science & Statistics and Data Science
Specialisation

INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL-LEAVING CERTIFICATES

Only National Senior Certificate equivalent subjects will
be considered. If English is taken as a 2nd Language, then
you must have another language as a 1st Language in order
to be considered further. English Literature is not accepted.

The following information is a GUIDELINE for applicants
who have successfully completed international secondary
school-leaving qualifications and wish to study further at
UCT. To be considered for admission, applicants must qualify
for matriculation exemption from the Matriculation Board
and meet certain minimum Faculty entry requirements.
Please note that the subjects and points score where
specified below are the minimum entrance requirements
and do not guarantee admission. Each applicant will be
assessed individually. Unless otherwise stated under
the language proficiency, all applicants must meet the
language requirement as per the UCT language policy.

FOR NSSC APPLICANTS:
A total of five subjects will be considered for admission by
combining a minimum of 4 NSSC subjects and the best
relevant IGCSE subject. Only Grades 1, 2 or 3 are acceptable
for NSSC and Grades A, B or C for IGCSE. If English is taken
as a 2nd Language, candidates must have another language
as a 1st Language in order to be considered further. English
Literature is not accepted.

CAMBRIDGE ASSESSMENT INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION
(OR EQUIVALENT), NAMIBIA SENIOR SECONDARY
CERTIFICATE. (NSSC), INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE
DIPLOMA AND ZIMSEC APPLICANTS

FOR IB DIPLOMA APPLICANTS:
A total of six subjects an applicant must hold the IB Diploma
(not the certificate) and satisfy the following minimum
requirements:
•
at least 3 Higher Level (HL) subjects plus 3 Standard
Level (SL) subjects
•
English Literature is accepted
All streams other than Actuarial Science and Quantitative
Finance
•
At least Grade 5 at HL or at least Grade 6 SL Mathematics/
Maths Method

FOR CAIE (OR EQUIVALENT) APPLICANTS:
A total of five subjects will be considered for admissions by
combining three A-Levels plus two subjects which may be
IGCSE or AS-Level OR four AS-Levels plus one IGCSE. Each
subject will only be counted once at A-Level or AS-Level
or IGCSE.

27

•
•
•

ADDITIONAL ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR PROCEEDING
TO SENIOR YEARS IN STREAMS CONTAINING LAW

Note Mathematical Studies or Maths Main are not
accepted
English at Grade 3 at HL or Grade 5 at SL
English Literature is accepted

Students hoping to take a law by commerce programme
may only proceed to the law pvl 1000-level courses if they
have received confirmation that they have been allocated
a place on those courses.

ADVANCED DIPLOMA IN ACTUARIAL SCIENCE

The number of places available on the PVL 1000-level
courses is limited and varies from year to year. Places
are allocated on a competitive basis to students with
the highest aggregates and in accordance with the Law
Faculty’s redress enrolment targets.

Candidates should have a first-class degree in
Mathematical Statistics from a recognised university,
with at least two years of Mathematics. Candidates with
excellent results in degrees in related subjects may also be
considered, but it is essential that candidates have a solid
grounding in Mathematics and Mathematical Statistics
(up to HEQSF Level 6).

To be eligible for consideration for a possible (but
not guaranteed) place on the PVL 1000-level courses,
students must have completed and passed all courses
in the prescribed curriculum prior to the year of including
the pvl 1000-level courses at first attempt and obtained
an aggregate of at least 63% for all such courses.
Results in supplementary examinations are not included
when calculating the aggregate but results of deferred
examinations are included.

ADVANCED DIPLOMA IN ACCOUNTING
Graduates of other universities who have completed the
equivalent of Financial Reporting II, Governance, Audit and
Assurance I, Taxation I and Management Accounting I will
be required to write entrance examinations in the following
UCT courses in order to satisfy the 55% weighted average
requirement for admission in the Advanced Diploma.:
•
Financial Reporting II ACC2012W
•
Governance, Audit and Assurance I ACC2018H
•
Management Accounting I ACC2022H
•
Taxation I ACC2023H
Entrance exams are written in the exam period prior to
the commencement of the next academic year.A UCT
graduate is required to complete these courses (or their
entrance exam equivalents) with a 55% weighted average
over a period not exceeding two years prior to registering
for the Advanced Diploma and must passe Business
Law (CML1004S) and Financial Management (FTX2024F).
Graduates who have not completed Information Systems
(INF2004F) and Business Law (CML1001F/CML1004S) will
be required to complete these courses concurrently with
the eight prescribed courses of the programme.

Note: the 63% aggregate is the minimum requirement for
students to be eligible for consideration for a place on the
law PVL 1000-level courses. It does not guarantee a place.
Given the large number of students who apply to take
those courses and the fact that places are limited and
are offered on a competitive basis to students with the
highest aggregates, it is likely that a student will require
an aggregate well above 63% in order to actually receive
a place.

TRANSFERRING APPLICANTS
The Faculty of Commerce requires students who want to
transfer into the Faculty (either from within UCT or from
other universities) to meet the following criteria:
•
Meet the minimum entrance requirements for the
Faculty of Commerce for the year of application
as published in the https://uct.ac.za/students/
prospective-students/undergraduate-prospectus
Undergraduate Prospectus.
•
The annual GPA must be at a minimum of 60%, and no
subject must be failed.
•
The applicant must be able to finish a degree within
the Commerce Faculty in the minimum time. This
takes into consideration the number of years already
taken within a bachelor’s programme; for external
applicants – the years at another university, and for
internal applicants – the years in another faculty.
All transferring applicants must have valid
https://nbt.uct.ac.za/ National Benchmark Tests (NBTs)
that meet the minimum requirements of the Commerce
Faculty.

28

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

|

IGCSE, AS-LEVEL, A-LEVEL, NSSC AND IB DIPLOMA APPLICANTS

Bachelor of Business Science
specialising in:
Computer Science
Economics
Economics with Law
Finance, Investment and Banking
Finance with Accounting
Information Systems
Marketing
Organisational Psychology
Statistics and Data Science
Bachelor of Commerce specialising in:
Financial Accounting (General/Chartered)
Economics with Law
Economics with Finance
Economics & Statistics
Information Systems
Information Systems & Computer Science
Information Systems & Finance
Management Studies
Philosophy Politics & Economics

BBusSc/BCom specialising in:
Actuarial Science
Quantitative Finance

MINIMUM SUBJECT REQUIREMENTS

GUARANTEED
ADMISSION

DEGREE WITH PLANS

MATHEMATICS

ENGLISH

36
NBT scores of Upper
Intermediate for AL & QL

A-level C or
AS-level B

A-level E or
AS-level D or
IGCSE B

36
NBT scores of Upper
Intermediate for AL & QL

NSSC Grade 1

NSSC Grade 3

36
NBT scores of Upper
Intermediate for AL & QL

IB Diploma with
Grade 5
Higher Level
or Grade 6
Standard Level

IB Diploma with
Grade 3
Higher Level or
Grade 5
Standard Level

NOTE Mathematical
Studies or Maths Main
are not accepted.

(English Literature
is accepted.)

40

A-Level A

40
(without A-level subjects)

AS-Level A

A-level C or
AS-level B or
IGCSE A

40
AL and QL NBT scores of
Upper Intermediate for English
1st language; NBT scores of
Proficient for 2nd language

NSSC Grade 1

NSSC Grade 2

40
AL and QL NBT scores of
Upper Intermediate for English
1st language; NBT scores of
Proficient for 2nd language

ABITUR
All applicants are required to write the NBT
Academic Literacy (AL) and Quantitative
Literacy tests and obtain scores of proficient
for admission into the Actuarial Science and
upper intermediate for admission into the
non-Actuarial Science programmes.
The conversion table (grades to percentages)
below can be used to assess eligibility for
admission. At least 10 points are required for
Mathematics and English for admission.
Applicants’ performance on the Abitur is
assessed using the following points table:

IB Diploma
Grade 7
Higher Level

POINT RANGE

% RANGE

15
14

IB Diploma
Grade 5
Higher Level or Grade 7
Standard Level
(English Literature is accepted.)

100-95
sehr gut

94-90

13

89-85

12

84-80

11

gut

79-75

10

74-70

9

69-65

8

befriedigend

64-60

7

59-55

6

54-50

5
4

29

ausreichend

49-45
44-40

NB : ALL COPY IS LAST YEARS - ONLY ALL YEARS HAVE BEEN CHANGE UP BY 1 YEARS.
PAGES NO NEED TO ALL BE CHANGE STILL

FACULTY OF
ENGINEERING &
THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT

Admissions and
The faculty
placement
of tests
engineering
have &
been
theused
builtat UCT
environment
for over
30 years. Theenjoys
National
anBenchmark
outstanding
Tests
reputation
(NBTs) arefor its
administered
high
by the Centre for
quality
Educational
graduates. not
Assessment
only are
(CEA).
we proud to be
increasing the number of black engineers and built
All undergraduate
environment
applicants
specialists,
who arebut
normally
we are also
residentproud
or at
school in South
to record
Africa must
increasing
write the
numbers
NBTs,
of and
female
all students
applicants
to programmes
whoinare
thechoosing
Faculty of
toHealth
pursue careers
Sciencesinmust
engineering.
write the
NBTs wherever they
researchers
reside.
in engineering
International& the
applicants
built to
environment
undergrad
LLB must write
arethe AL
regularly
part of the
commissioned
NBT. by
Applicants
industry
areto conduct
responsible
for the costs of
research
writing the
andNBTs.
through
Information
these regarding
partnerships
the use
theof
the test scores in
faculty
each
earns
faculty
significant
can be found
fundinginfor
theUCT.
faculty pages.

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

programming, big data, water and wastewater treatment,
hydraulics and hydrology, environmental evaluation, surveying,
transportation, urban development, design, construction,
management and professional communications.. The new
curriculum commencing in 2025 includes new content
relevant to 21st-century civil engineering practice whilst
providing greater emphasis to locally relevant examples
and technologies. The new curriculum structured around
project-linked learning is intended to promote competency
development and facilitate deeper engagement with new
trends in civil engineering practice. The final year ends with
a five-week large-scale design project and a nine- week
individual research project. Visit www.civil.uct.ac.za

The Faculty enjoys an excellent international reputation for
its work in a number of areas. For example, it has taken on the
research challenges of environment-friendly technologies
and has won international status for its multi-disciplinary
research into areas such as minerals processing and energy.

WHAT WE OFFER
ARCHITECTURAL STUDIES
A general, design-based foundational degree, the Bachelor
of Architectural Studies (BAS) focuses on the design of the
built environment and architectural design. This degree
equips students with the ability to solve design problems
imaginatively, to think rationally and to exercise appropriate
judgement within the discipline of architecture. In particular,
it aims to develop the capacity to design appropriately
within the built and natural environment. The three-year
BAS degree provides the grounding for application into the
BAS Honours that articulates into the Master of Architecture
(professional). The BAS degree further makes application
possible for entry into other professional postgraduate
programmes in the school, including landscape architecture,
urban design, city and regional planning, and conservation of
the built environment, and many postgraduate programmes
in other faculties. Graduates of the BAS degree may register
with SACAP, the South African Council for the Architectural
Profession, as a Candidate Architectural Technologist.
Graduates who further pursue architectural studies may
register as Candidate Senior Architectural Technologist and
Candidate Architect respectively for the BAS Honours and
the Master of Architecture (professional). All applicants for
the BAS degree must complete a portfolio of prescribed
creative exercises. Find out more at www.apg.uct.ac.za

CONSTRUCTION STUDIES & PROPERTY STUDIES
The Department of Construction Economics and
Management offers two three-year undergraduate degrees:
BSc in Construction Studies and BSc in Property Studies;
and three one-year Honours degrees: Quantity Surveying,
Construction Management and Property Studies. The BSc in
Property Studies will give you a head start in a challenging
and rewarding career in the property industry. Besides
acquiring a broad knowledge of finance, macro and microeconomics, property law, and appropriate communication
and computer skills, you will develop skills in the field of
property development.

CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
Chemical Engineering represents a synthesis of chemistry,
physics and mathematics applied to real problems which
affect our everyday lives. We have reached a point where
society must contend with fundamental changes in the
availability of some of the most important resources on
this planet: energy, food, essential minerals and the global
environment.
Technological solutions for many of these problems fall within
the domain of the chemical engineer. To become a chemical
engineer takes four years of academic study complemented
by exposure to the process industries. Learn more about the
programme at www.chemeng.uct.ac.za/

CIVIL ENGINEERING
In a world of unprecedented growth in new knowledge,
growing socio-economic divides, and climate change, the
civil engineer of today needs to be a technically-oriented
designer, a public-minded planner of services which benefit
entire communities, a protector of public health and the
environment, a practical leader of construction teams or
creator of organisations and systems that provide work and
serve communities. The BSc(Eng) in Civil Engineering includes
courses in the sciences, mathematics, materials, structures,
geology, geotechnics, geographical information systems,

31

ELECTRICAL & COMPUTER ENGINEERING

The BSc in Construction Studies will enable you to prepare
tenders and manage construction contracts, estimate
costs and undertake financial management of construction
projects, manage the construction of buildings and related
infrastructure, manage human resources, evaluate property
investments and communicate spatial concepts, financial
issues and other data. Visit the website of the Department of
Construction Economics and Management at
www.cons.uct.ac.za

Electrical & Computer Engineering combines Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science to equip graduates with
a thorough understanding of the design of special-purpose
computers and computer-based systems. This degree
integrates concepts of the analysis, design and application of
computing, information acquisition and processing systems
in various fields. Examples are in the areas of communications,
high performance scientific computing, signal processing
and electronic control systems. Find out more at
www.ee.uct.ac.za

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Electrical Engineering covers a wide and diverse range
of activities and industries including computing,
telecommunications, electronic circuits, power and energy.
The diverse requirements of industry and the different
interests of students can be accommodated through the
selection of specialisation courses in the final year of study.
The Electrical Engineering degree curriculum at UCT has been
designed to be flexible. Electrical engineers can choose to
follow a high technology career in research and development,
or to follow a career in operations and maintenance. Find out
more at www.ee.uct.ac.za

GEOMATICS
Geomatics refers to the creation, representation, analysis,
management, retrieval and modelling of spatial information
which represents the earth’s physical features, the built
environment and other spatially defined objects. The principal
disciplines associated with geomatics include surveying
and mapping, the mapping sciences, land management,
geographic information systems and science, environmental
visualisation, geodesy, photogrammetry, remote sensing and
surveying. Geomatics is a professional career for individuals
who have an aptitude for mathematics and applied sciences.

MECHATRONICS
The School of Architecture, Planning and Geomatics offers
a four-year BSc in Geomatics which is recognised by the
South African Geomatics Council. Graduates may choose to
register as a professional surveyor after completing a period
of articles. A career in geomatics offers an exciting variety
of professional work possibilities
and is recognised world-wide.
For more information about
geomatics, the degrees we
offer, and how to apply,
please visit
www.geomatics.uct.ac.za

Mechatronics is an interdisciplinary branch of engineering
which combines fundamental study in mechanical
engineering with light-current electrical engineering. As a
mechatronics student at UCT, you will study a specialisation
in electrical and electronic engineering, combined with a
grounding in mechanical engineering. The mechatronics
engineer in industry may require expertise across a broad
range of engineering disciplines and will be especially
well suited to a career in light manufacturing, robotics,
automation and process control. Discover more information
about Mechatronics at www.mechatronics.uct.ac.za

32

|

MECHANICAL ENGINEERING

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

Management is also accredited by the Chartered Institute of
Building (CIOB).

Mechanical Engineering involves understanding and
harnessing forces and energy in machines for the benefit
of society. Whether the machine is a space shuttle, steam
turbine, a motor car or a robot-controlled production line,
a mechanical engineer would be involved in the design,
manufacture and utilisation of such machines.

The BSc Honours in Property Studies is accredited by the
SA Council for the Property Valuers Profession (SACPVP). The
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) accredits the
BSc Honours degrees in Property Studies, Quantity Surveying
and Construction Management. The South African Council for
the Quantity Surveying Profession accredits the BSc Honours
degree in Quantity Surveying. The South African Council
for the Project and Construction Management Professions
(SACPCMP) accredits the BSc Construction Studies and BSc
Honours in Construction Management.

The BSc (Eng) in Mechanical Engineering allows graduate
employment opportunities in a wide spectrum of engineering
disciplines, as well as providing the foundation for a career
in specialist fields such as aeronautical engineering, marine
and biomedical engineering. Visit www.mecheng.uct.ac.za for
more information.

The BSc in Geomatics is accredited by the South African
Geomatics Council.

MECHANICAL & MECHATRONIC ENGINEERING
The Mechanical and Mechatronic Engineering degree
combines fundamental mechanical engineering disciplines
with mechatronic engineering skills, such as embedded
systems, robotics, and industrial automation. This broad skill
set is effective in applications that involve complex electromechanical systems — where mechanical systems are deeply
integrated with electronics. The resulting graduate is able
to analyse, design, and implement intricate mechatronic
systems, and is well placed for careers in a wide range of such
industries, namely automation, robotics, and manufacturing.
Visit www.mecheng.uct.ac.za for more information.

ACADEMIC DEVELOPMENT IN ENGINEERING & THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT
The Academic Support Programme for Engineering in Cape
Town (ASPECT) provides alternative courses with extra
support in mathematics and physics for the first year and a
half of the extended degree programmes in the engineering
departments. All students admitted to an engineering
qualification at UCT currently start on a curriculum based on
a 4-year qualification.

ACCREDITATION OF DEGREES

The first 5 weeks are used to identify students who will
benefit from changing to a 5-year extended qualification.
Those students are encouraged to make the change in April,
by reducing their ‘load’ – the number of credits or courses for
which they are registered.

The BSc (Eng) degrees in Chemical, Civil, Electrical, Electrical
& Computer, Mechanical & Mechatronic, Mechanical
Engineering and Mechatronics are accepted by the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as fulfilling the
academic requirements for registration as a professional
engineer. The degrees are internationally recognised in terms
of the Washington Accord.

The reduction in the number of courses allows them more
time to concentrate on the challenging transitions that
mathematics and physics demand. Students in the extended
qualification enjoy smaller classes, more contact time for
mathematics and physics, easy access to the dedicated
lecturers of these courses and a supportive community
environment. Students may also choose to join the extended
qualification if they want more time and support to build a
better foundation in mathematics and physics.

The BSc in Construction Studies and the BSc Honours in
Quantity Surveying and in Construction Management are
accredited by the South African Council for the Quantity
Surveying Profession (SACQSP) and the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors (RICS). The BSc Honours in Construction

33

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS
HOLDING THE NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN CONSTRUCTION
STUDIES
ELIGIBLE

NOTE: Mathematical Literacy or Technical Mathematics
cannot be substituted for Mathematics, and Technical
Science cannot be substituted for Physical Sciences.

All applicants

* The results of the NBTs are not taken into account for
admission for the Faculty of Engineering & The Built
Environment.

ACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING IN
CIVIL ENGINEERING
ELIGIBLE

All applicants

All applicants

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
500 FPS or above
≥ 75% for Mathematics &
≥ 70% for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL
to be written*

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
460 WPS or above
≥ 75% for Mathematics & ≥
70% for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL
to be written*

Band
C
FPS

Possible admission
420 FPS or above
≥ 75% for Mathematics & ≥
70% for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL
to be written*

All applicants

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

All applicants

All applicants

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
500 FPS or above
≥ 80% for Mathematics & ≥
75% for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL &
QL to be written*

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
480 WPS or above
≥ 80% for Mathematics & ≥
75% for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL &
QL to be written*

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
420 FPS or above
≥ 80% for Mathematics & ≥
75% for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL &
QL to be written*

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
450 FPS or above
≥ 65% for Mathematics & ≥ 60% for
Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
420 WPS or above
≥ 65% for Mathematics & ≥ 55% for
Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
390 FPS or above
≥ 65% for Mathematics & ≥ 55% for
Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN PROPERTY STUDIES
ELIGIBLE

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
450 FPS or above
≥ 65% for Mathematics
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

All applicants

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
420 WPS or above
≥ 65% for Mathematics
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
390 FPS or above
≥ 65% for Mathematics
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

All applicants

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING IN
ELECTRICAL, ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER
ENGINEERING AND MECHATRONICS
ELIGIBLE

BAND

BACHELOR OF ARCHITECTURAL STUDIES
ELIGIBLE

All applicants

All applicants

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

34

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
450 FPS or above
≥ 50% for Mathematics & ≥ 50%
for English
Architecture Portfolio Score of
75% or above
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
408 WPS or above
≥ 50% for Mathematics & ≥ 50%
for English
Architecture Portfolio Score of
68% or above
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
348 FPS or above
≥ 50% for Mathematics & ≥ 50%
for English
Architecture Portfolio Score of
50% or above
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING IN
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
ELIGIBLE

All applicants

All applicants

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
500 FPS or above
≥ 80% for Mathematics & ≥ 70%
for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
480 WPS or above
≥ 80% for Mathematics & ≥ 70%
for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
420 FPS or above
≥ 80% for Mathematics & ≥ 70%
for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS WITH
NON-SOUTH AFRICAN SCHOOL-LEAVING
CERTIFICATES
The table below is a guide for applicants with Cambridge
Assessment International Education (CAIE) and similar
subjects, the Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate
(NSSC), and the International Baccalaurate Diploma (IB).
NOTES:
•
Performance in non-South African secondary schoolleaving examinations is not converted to points for
applications to programmes in this faculty.
•
The subject requirements below are minimum
requirements only, and do not guarantee admission.
Additional subjects may be required to meet
matriculation exemption requirements.
•
A pass in English Language is required at A-level, ASlevel, IGCSE level, Baccalaureate or other equivalent
level.
•
At IGSCE Level English must be taken as a first language,
or another first language must be offered.
•
Applicants with only IGCSE level subjects are not
eligible for admission.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING IN
MECHANICAL, AND MECHANICAL &
MECHATRONIC ENGINEERING
ELIGIBLE

All applicants

All applicants

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
500 FPS or above
≥ 80% for Mathematics & ≥ 75%
for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
480 WPS or above
≥ 80% for Mathematics & ≥ 75%
for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band C
FPS

All applicants must submit a written motivation and
a portfolio of creative work. Details are provided in
the Directions for Undergraduate Applicants.

Bachelor of
Architectural
Studies

Possible admission
420 FPS or above
≥ 80% for Mathematics & ≥ 75%
for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

All applicants

All applicants

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
450 FPS or above
≥ 75% for Mathematics & ≥ 70%
for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
420 WPS or above
≥ 65% for Mathematics & ≥ 60%
for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
390 FPS or above
≥ 65% for Mathematics & ≥ 60%
for Physical Sciences
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to
be written*

Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC)
At least a Grade 3 pass at Higher level or a grade
C pass at Ordinary level for Mathematics or
Physical Science
International Baccalaureate (IB)
Full IB Diploma with at least Grade 4 for
Mathematics or Physics at standard level.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN GEOMATICS
ELIGIBLE

A-Level
•
at least D in two A-Level subjects and at least
C at IGCSE level for Mathematics or Physics
AS-Level
•
at least C in four AS-Level subjects and at
least C at IGCSE level for Mathematics or
Physics

Bachelor
of Science
in
Construction
Studies

A-Level
•
at least two D symbols, one of which must be
in Mathematics; and
•
at least C at IGCSE level for Physics or
Chemistry
AS-Level
•
at least D for Mathematics and at least B in
three other AS-Level subjects and
•
at least C at IGCSE level for Physics or
Chemistry
Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC)
Level 2 passes in at least four higher level subjects
including Mathematics and
Physical Science
International Baccalaureate (IB)
Full IB Diploma with at least a Grade 5 pass at
standard level or a Grade 4 pass at higher level for
each of the subjects Mathematics and Physics or
Chemistry
Note: Mathematical Studies is not acceptable

35

A-Level
•
at least two D symbols at A-Level, one of which
must be in Mathematics
AS-Level
•
at least D for Mathematics and at least B in three
other AS-Level subjects
Bachelor
of Science
in Property
Studies

Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC)
Level 2 passes in at least four higher level subjects
including Mathematics
Bachelor
of Science
in Geomatics

International Baccalaureate (IB)
Full IB Diploma with at least a Grade 5 pass at
standard level or a Grade 4 pass at higher level for
each of the subjects Mathematics and Physics or
Chemistry

A-Level
•
at least C in IGCSE level English; and
•
at least B in Mathematics at A-level AND either
B in A-level Chemistry and a pass with at least B
in IGCSE level Physics; or
•
B in A-Level Physics and a pass with at least B
in IGSCE Chemistry
AS-Level
•
at least C for IGCSE level English; and
•
at least A for Mathematics and Physics and two
B symbols at AS-Level;
or without Physics: at least A for Mathematics;
and A for either Physics or Chemistry; and B for
the other (Physics or Chemistry), plus one other
B symbol

OTHER NON-SOUTH AFRICAN EXAMINATIONS

Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC)
At least four higher level subjects with Level 1
passes in Mathematics and
Physical Science

Applicants with only IGCSE subjects need to complete the
first year of a four-year degree programme at a university in
their country of origin, before applying to the UCT.

Note: Mathematical Studies is not acceptable

Secondary school-leaving subjects MUST include
Mathematics. Applicants from some countries (e.g. Angola
and DRC) must have completed the first year of a four-year
degree programme at a university in their country of origin
before applying to UCT.

International Baccalaureate (IB)
Full IB Diploma with a Grade 6 pass at standard
level or a Grade 5 pass at higher level for each of the
subjects Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry

Applications will be assessed on an individual basis. Meeting
the above minimum requirements does not guarantee
admission. Admission may be limited due to available
capacity.

Note: Mathematical Studies is not acceptable

Bachelor
of Science
in Engineering
in Electrical
Engineering,
Electrical and
Computer
Engineering,
and Mechatronics

Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC)
At least four higher level subjects with Level 1 passes
in Mathematics and
Physical Science
International Baccalaureate (IB)
Full IB Diploma with at least a Grade 6 pass at
standard level or a Grade 5 pass at
higher level for each of the subjects Mathematics and
Physics

Note: Mathematical Studies is not acceptable

Bachelor
of Science
in Engineering
in Chemical,
Civil, Mechanical,
and Mechanical
& Mechatronic
Engineering

A-Level
•
at least C for English at IGCSE level and
•
at least C for Mathematics at A-Level and C for
Physics at A-Level
AS-Level
•
at least C for IGCSE level English ;and
•
at least B for Maths at AS-Level and C for
Physics at AS-Level plus two other
AS-Level subjects with B symbols

A-Level
•
at least C in IGCSE level English; and
•
at least B for Mathematics at A-Level AND B for
A-Level Physics
AS-Level
•
at least C for IGCSE level English; and
•
A for two AS-Level subjects including
Mathematics and Physics plus two
B symbols at AS-Level for two other subjects
Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC)
At least four higher level subjects with Level 1 passes
in Mathematics and
Physical Science
International Baccalaureate (IB)
Full IB Diploma with at least a Grade 6 pass at
standard level or a Grade 5 pass at
higher level for each of the subjects Mathematics and
Physics
Note: Mathematical Studies is not acceptable

36

|

FACULTY
OF HEALTH
SCIENCES

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

ABOUT THE FACULTY
The Faculty offers undergraduate degrees in Medicine, Occupational
Therapy, Physiotherapy, Audiology, and Speech-Language Pathology. A
Higher Certificate in Disability Studies and an Advanced Diploma in
Cosmetic Formulation Science are also offered.
All these undergraduate programmes have fixed curricula. The degree
programmes include extensive training at hospitals and clinics in and
around Cape Town and in other relevant community settings, which
may include schools and informal settlements.

WHAT WE OFFER

settings. The MBChB programme is offered by a range of
Departments in the Faculty of Health Sciences. Visit the
various departments’ sites at www.health.uct.ac.za

BACHELOR OF MEDICINE
& BACHELOR OF SURGERY
(MBCHB)

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY

The MBChB programme takes
six years to complete. After
graduating with an MBChB
degree and completing two
years’ internship and a year’s
community service, you will be
allowed by the Health Professions
Council of South Africa to practise
as a medical doctor.As a medical
doctor you may work in a public or
private hospital or in a community
clinic, join a doctor’s practice,
open your own practice, or
work in a variety of other

The aim of Occupational Therapy is to help people overcome
functional difficulties resulting from health-related
problems and to develop their abilities, so that they may be
independent and effective at home, at work and during their
leisure time. This is a four-year degree programme.
When you obtain the BSc (Occupational Therapy) degree,
and after completing a year’s community service, you will
be allowed by the Health Professions Council of South Africa
to practise as an occupational therapist. You will work with
people of all ages whose lives have been complicated by
sickness, trauma and developmental delay, and who are
struggling to cope with and adapt to their circumstances
or their environment. You may help them in their homes
or in their places of work, as well as in clinics, schools and
hospitals, or you may work in a private practice.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN PHYSIOTHERAPY
Physiotherapy aims to help people in the community
to lead a healthy lifestyle, to prevent illness or injury for
those at risk, and to treat people who have been disabled
or injured. Physiotherapy makes use of physiologicallybased movement techniques, massage, electrotherapy
and other physical means to prevent and treat injury
and disease. This is a four-year degree programme.
When you obtain the BSc (Physiotherapy) degree, and
after you have completed a year’s community service,
you will be allowed by the Health Professions Council
of South Africa to practise as a physiotherapist. You will
help people of all ages who suffer from (for example)
breathing and chest problems, cerebral palsy, strokes,
fractured bones, stiff joints, sports injuries and painful
necks and backs.
As a physiotherapist you may open your own
practice, or work at community centres, hospitals
and outpatient clinics. Many physiotherapists work
in special schools for disabled children or provide
rehabilitation programmes in people’s homes for

38

|

them to become as independent as possible at home and in
their communities.
You may also choose to work and travel with sports teams
to treat injuries and advise on the fitness of members of the
teams and on proper training to prevent common injuries
associated with a particular sport.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN SPEECH-LANGUAGE
PATHOLOGY
Speech Language Therapists assess and treat people who
have communication disorders, such as problems with sound
production and language learning, voice disorders, swallowing
disorders and stuttering. You may also treat people who have
disorders of speech and language after they have suffered
strokes or because they have cerebral palsy.
The degree programme takes four years to complete and is
followed by a year of community service. On completion of
your community service, you will be allowed by the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) to practise as a
speech-language therapist.
As a speech-language therapist you may work at community
centres, hospitals and outpatient clinics or open your own
practice. Many speech therapists also work in schools or
provide rehabilitation programmes in people’s homes.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN AUDIOLOGY
Audiologists assess people’s hearing, fit hearing aids,
manage speech and language problems of people who are
hard of hearing or deaf, and deal with noise measurement
and control.
The degree programme takes four years to complete and is
followed by a year of community service. On completion of
your community service, you will be allowed by the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) to practise as
an audiologist.
As an audiologist you may work at schools,community
centres, hospitals and outpatient clinics or open your own
practice.

HIGHER CERTIFICATE IN DISABILITY PRACTICE
The Higher Certificate in Disability Practice aims to train
home-based carers and school-leavers who have an
interest in pursuing a career in the field of communitybased disability practice. Students learn foundational
skills for disability prevention and care. The qualification
provides students with the basic knowledge, cognitive and
conceptual tools and practical techniques for application in
the field of disability-inclusive community development.
The qualification signifies that the student has attained a
basic level of higher educational knowledge and appropriate

1
2

3

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

competencies in their role as community development
workers. The Higher Certificate includes theoretical and
practical work-integrated learning components. The
curriculum for the Higher Certificate extends over one year
of full-time study.
The Higher Certificate programme is offered only if there is
a sufficient number of applicants. Visit www.dhrs.uct.ac.za/
dhrs/divisions/disability/undergraduate/requirements

ADMISSION TO PROGRAMMES IN THE FACULTY
The Faculty of Heath Sciences receives an exceptionally high
volume of applications for a limited number of places. Most
of the applications are of very high standard and thus the
competition for places is significant. Meeting the minimum
criteria is no guarantee for acceptance to study in your
chosen programme.

NUMBER OF PLACES AVAILABLE IN EACH PROGRAMME
Bachelor of Medicine & Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB): 240
Bachelor of Science in Audiology:
37
Bachelor of Science in Occupational Therapy:
70
Bachelor of Science in Physiotherapy:
70
Bachelor of Science in Speech-Language Pathology: 40
Higher Certificate in Disability Practice:
30
Advanced Diploma in Cosmetic Formulation Science: 10

ELIGIBILITY FOR CONSIDERATION FOR DEGREE
PROGRAMMES
Applicants must:
•
have passed certain secondary school-leaving subjects
at specific minimum performance levels,
•
have obtained a minimum overall Admissions Point
Score (APS1);
•
have obtained minimum performance levels in the
National Benchmark Tests: be eligible for admission to
degree studies, or (if you have obtained a non-South
African secondary school-leaving certificate) have
matriculation exemption;
•
be a citizen or permanent resident of South Africa or
of a Southern African Development Community (SADC)
country that does not have a health sciences faculty or
whose health sciences faculties do not offer the health
sciences programme you wishto study 2 3.
If you are a South African citizen who has written a non-NSC
secondary school-leaving examination, either within South
Africa or abroad, you will be eligible for consideration only if
you have written examinations towards a national secondary
school-leaving examination (i.e. where all secondary schoolleavers in the country concerned are required to write the
same secondary school-leaving examinations - such as
CAIE, IB Diploma, GCSE and NSSC examinations) as opposed
to examinations at state level (such as those offered in some
states in the USA).

Note: The Admissions Point Score (APS) is the total of the percentages of your six school subjects.
If you are from a non-SADC country in Africa with an approved Occupational Therapy diploma and have practised as an occupational therapist for more than two years you
may be considered on merit, provided that
your NBT scores fall in the Intermediate or Proficient range. We admit a maximum of two applicants in this category annually.
The Faculty will consider the immediate family members of permanently appointed UCT staff members who are not South African citizens or permanent residents or eligible
SADC applicants, and who have applied for permanent residency but whose permanent residency has not yet been approved at the time of application, provided they are
competitive in the “open competition” category.

Exceptions may be considered on merit in the case of
applicants who have obtained tertiary-level qualifications.

school results (Grade11 final or Grade 12 Term 1, Term 2 and
Term 3 results) or interim academic transcript.

In addition to the above requirements, the following
guidelines apply, with exceptions being considered on
individual merit:
•
If you are doing a foundation programme, you must
have completed your foundation programme, unless
you would in any event be eligible for consideration
based on your NSC or other school-leaving examination
results and your results in the NBTs.
•
If you are already registered for a similar health sciences
programme at another university and you wish to
transfer to UCT you will need to compete for admission
to the first year of the relevant programme.
•
If you have been refused re-admission by any Faculty at
UCT or another tertiary institution you are not generally
eligible for consideration.

CONDITIONAL OFFERS
In the case of secondary school-leavers, conditional offers
are first made to applicants with very competitive results.
The condition on which early offers are made is that
applicants maintain or improve, in their final examinations,
their best level of performance to date, at the time that the
offer was made (Should applicants not meet the conditions
in their final examinations, their conditional offer may be
revoked).
If you are studying at, or completed studies at, another
higher education institution, you will be considered on the
basis of your secondary school-leaving results and your
higher education results. In addition, transferring applicants
may be required to write the National Benchmark Tests as
indicated (see page 46), and may be asked to submit a letter
of motivation. You will need to submit an interim academic
transcript, certificate of good conduct and your final, yearend transcript as soon as they are available and no later than
31 December 2025.

APPLICANTS WITH DISABILITIES
UCT welcomes applications from applicants with special
needs. However, there are some disabilities that would
prevent someone from completing a particular health
sciences curriculum (for example, someone who is deaf may
not be able to hear a heartbeat through a stethoscope).
For this reason, applicants with disabilities are urged to
communicate with the Faculty, via UCT’s Disability Service,
to establish whether this would apply to them. The Faculty
reserves the right to require an applicant (or an admitted
student) to undergo a professional assessment to determine
the extent and likely impact of a disability on his or her ability
to meet the requirements of the curriculum, including such
practical training and practice as is required in the health
sciences discipline concerned. UCT reserves the right to
withdraw an offer to an applicant or cancel the registration
of a student who has failed to declare a disability that is
found to be such as to make it impossible for him or her
to meet the curriculum requirements in the health sciences
discipline concerned.

Applicants who do not secure early conditional offers are
reconsidered when the final secondary school results are
received. The cut-off points for offers may then be dropped
until the class is filled.

DEFERRED ADMISSION OR “GAP YEAR”
Applicants who are offered a place and wish to take a gap
year may have their application deferred to the following year
on request. However, a gap year is understood to be a year
in which the applicant does not register for formal tertiary
studies. An applicant who defers their application and
registers for tertiary studies, at this or another institution,
must reapply formally as a transferring undergraduate
applicant for admission in the following admission year.

THE SELECTION PROCESS

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS
HOLDING THE NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE

The Faculty of Health Sciences Admissions committee will
prioritize first choice applicants during the selection process.
Applicants compete in selection categories as follows:
•
South African secondary school leavers
•
SADC applicants (international applicants)
•
Applicants with tertiary results from UCT or other
institutions.

PLEASE NOTE: All degrees within Health Sciences
APS = NSC score (score out of 600). The APS is worked out
as follows: percentages of three required subjects plus
percentages of next three best subjects excluding Life
Orientation.
NBT = National Benchmark Tests (score out of 300). The
results are published in Proficient/Intermediate /Basic
ranges.
FPS = The Faculty Points Score (FPS) (score out of 900). This
consists of the percentages of three required subjects plus
percentages of next three best subjects but excluding Life
Orientation, plus the NBT score.
WPS = Weighted Points Score (score out of 1080). The WPS
is used in Band B only and consists of your FPS weighted
by your disadvantage factor (see the section on the general
Admissions Policy for an explanation of the disadvantage
factors).

The Dean may also allocate (within the intake targets) a small
number of discretionary places, on merit, to (for example)
the following categories of applicants:
•
Repeat applicants who meet the prescribe minimum
criteria
•
Applicants with disabilities.
Applications are considered on a continual basis from the
time that the Faculty receives the first NBT results and
applicants have uploaded at least one set of provisional

40

|

NATIONAL BENCHMARK TESTS

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

HOW WE CALCULATE YOUR FACULTY POINTS SCORE
(FPS) FOR THE DEGREE PROGRAMMES

All secondary school leaving applicants must write some
or all components of the NBTs, consisting of the Academic
and Quantitative Literacy Test (AQL) and Mathematics
Test. NBT results contribute up to 300 points towards your
Faculty Points Score. Applicants applying for admission
to MBChB and Physiotherapy need to have NBT results
that are in the Intermediate or Proficient Applicants to
Audiology, Speech-Language Pathology Occupational
Therapy who did Mathematical Literacy are advised to not
write NBT Mathematics. Their applications will be considered
individually, on merit.

The following are added if you are an NSC candidate:
•
Points (percentage) out of 100 for each of English,
Mathematics and Physical Sciences;
•
Points out of 100 for each of your next three best
subjects excluding Life Orientation
•
Points out of 300 for the National Benchmark Tests.
•
This gives you a total FPS out of 900
•
We do not score Advanced Programme Mathematics
or Advanced Programme English since these are not
approved NSC subjects.

Applicants to the Higher Certificate in Disability Practice
need to write only the Academic and Quantitative Literacy
components of the NBTs. Applicants to the Advanced Diploma
in Cosmetic Formulation Science need not write the NBTs.

CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS FOR DEGREE PROGRAMMES WRITING NSC EXAMINATIONS
BACHELOR OF MEDICINE AND BACHELOR OF SURGERY – MBCHB
Minimum subject requirements and performance levels to be considered for admission: Mathematics and
Physical Sciences at 70%, English (Home or First Additional Language) at 65%; and 70% for the next three best
subjects excluding Life Orientation. Sub-minimum APS of 450.
ELIGIBLE

BANDS

All applicants

Band A
FPS

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
Guaranteed admission
810 FPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Proficient for AL, QL and Mathematics

All applicants

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
807 WPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics

Only SA
applicants in targeted
redress categories

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
644 FPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN PHYSIOTHERAPY
Minimum subject requirements and performance levels to be considered
for admission: Mathematics at 60%, Physical Sciences or Life Sciences at 65%,
English (Home or First Additional Language) at 65%; and 60% for the next three
best subjects excluding Life Orientation. Sub-minimum APS of 360.
ELIGIBLE

BANDS

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
730 FPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics

All applicants

Only SA
applicants in
targeted redress
categories

Band B
WPS

Band C
FPS

Probable admission
797 WPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics
Possible admission
580 FPS or above for redress 1
610 FPS or above for redress 2
680 FPS or above for redress 3 and 4
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY

Minimum subject requirements and performance levels to be considered for admission:
Mathematics at 60% or Mathematical Literacy at 70%, Physical Sciences or Life Sciences at 65%, English (Home or First Additional
Language) at 65% or; and 60% for the next three best subjects excluding Life Orientation. Sub-minimum APS of 340.
ELIGIBLE

All applicants

All applicants

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

BANDS

Band A
FPS

Band B
WPS

Band C
FPS

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
Guaranteed admission
730 FPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL
and Mathematics (applicants taking Mathematical Literacy and have achieved more than 75% are
exempted from the NBT Mathematics Test)*
Probable admission
782 WPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL
and Mathematics (applicants taking Mathematical Literacy
and have achieved more than 75% are exempted from the NBT Mathematics Test)*
Possible admission
565 FPS for redress 1
580 FPS for redress 2
670 FPS for redress 3 and 4
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL
and Mathematics (applicants taking Mathematical Literacy and have achieved more than 75% are
exempted from the NBT Mathematics Test)*

NOTE: * A Mathematics NBT equivalence score will be calculated for Mathematical Literacy applicants using the following formula:
NBT Quantitative Literacy score minus 20 points = NBT Mathematics result).

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN AUDIOLOGY
Minimum subject requirements and performance levels to be considered for admission:
Mathematics at 60% or Mathematical Literacy at 70%, Physical Sciences or Life Sciences at 65%, English (Home or First
Additional Language) at 65%; and 60% for the next three best subjects excluding Life Orientation. Sub-minimum APS of 340.
ELIGIBLE

All applicants

All applicants

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

BANDS

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
720 FPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics (applicants taking Mathematical Literacy and have achieved more than 75% are exempted from the NBT Mathematics Test)*

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
710 WPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics (applicants taking Mathematical Literacy and have achieved more than 75% are exempted from the NBT Mathematics Test)*

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
550 FPS for redress 1
565 FPS for redress 2
610 FPS for redress 3 and 4
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics (applicants taking Mathematical Literacy and have achieved more than 75% are exempted from the NBT Mathematics Test)*

NOTE: * A Mathematics NBT equivalence score will be calculated for Mathematical Literacy applicants using the following formula:
NBT Quantitative Literacy score minus 20 points = NBT Mathematics result).

42

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN SPEECH-LANGUAGE PATHOLOGY

Minimum subject requirements and performance levels to be considered for admission:
Mathematics at 60% or Mathematical Literacy at 70%, Physical Sciences or Life Sciences
at 65%, English (Home or First Additional Language) at 65%; and 60% for the next three
best subjects excluding Life Orientation. Sub-minimum APS of 340.
ELIGIBLE

All applicants

All applicants

Only SA
applicants in
targeted redress
categories

BANDS

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
715 FPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics
(applicants taking Mathematical Literacy and have achieved more than
75% are exempted from the NBT Mathematics Test) **

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
670 WPS or above
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics
(applicants taking Mathematical Literacy and have achieved more than
75% are exempted from the NBT Mathematics Test)**

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
510 FPS for redress 1
515 FPS for redress 2
600 FPS for redress 3 and 4
Meet minimum subject requirements
NBT scores of Intermediate or above for AL, QL and Mathematics
(applicants taking Mathematical Literacy and have achieved more than
75% are exempted from the NBT Mathematics Test)**

NOTE: Applicants with Mathematical Literacy will be considered on an individual basis.
**Applicants with any NBT result in the Basic range may also be considered on an individual basis.
However, applicants who take Mathematical Literacy will not be considered if they have any NBT
result in the Basic range.

CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS FOR DEGREE PROGRAMMES
WRITING INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL-LEAVING
CERTIFICATES

CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS FOR OTHER PROGRAMMES
WRITING NSC EXAMINATIONS
Admission criteria for the Higher Certificate in Disability
Practice or the Advanced Diploma in Cosmetic Formulation
Science are not expressed in terms of bands. See page 39.

If you take a non-South African secondary school-leaving
examination, we will consider your application by:
•
Assessing your academic performance, using the rating
tables on page 16
•
Assessing your performance in the National Benchmark
Tests;
•
Comparing your overall performance to that of other
applicants

ELIGIBILITY FOR CONSIDERATION FOR HIGHER
CERTIFICATE IN DISABILITY PRACTICE
To be eligible for consideration to the Higher Certificate all
applicants must:
•
have obtained a National Senior Certificate or an
approved HEQSF-level 4 (school-leaving) qualification;
•
meet the Upper Intermediate to Proficient level in the
Academic and Quantitative Literacy components of the
National Benchmark Tests.

We consider the following International Grades: IGCSE/GCSE/
NSSC OL/O-Level, Cambridge A Level, Cambridge AS-Level,
International Baccalaureate Higher Level (IB HL), International
Baccalaureate Standard Level (IB SL), Higher International
General Certificate of Secondary Education/Namibian Senior
Secondary Certificate Higher Level (HIGCSE/NSSC HL)

ELIGIBILITY FOR CONSIDERATION FOR THE ADVANCED
DIPLOMA IN COSMETIC FORMULATION SCIENCE
To be considered for the programme, students must have
obtained:
•
or a degree with Biochemistry 3 (students with
Biochemistry 3 need to have at least Chemistry 2 to be
eligible for admission)
•
or a partially completed/ non-degree with Chemistry 2
and relevant work experience.

A table is used to convert non-NSC results to a comparable
score, where possible – see Admission Points Table for
Cambridge A, AS Levels, IGCSE and IB Diplomas on page 16 of
this Prospectus. Please note, applicants require six different
eligible subjects, the subjects must meet the requirements for
a Matric Exemption and applicants must meet the required
NBT performance.

Offers in this program are made subject to availability of space.

43

In addition, candidates writing Cambridge A-level, Cambridge AS-level, IGCSE or IB Diploma examinations must meet the
following minimum admission score requirements, obtained using the scoring examples in the SCORE CALCULATION TABLE
FOR SELECTED NON-SOUTH AFRICAN EXAMINING AUTHORITIES.
Note 1. The same subject cannot be counted twice.
Note 2. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission.
Advanced (A) Level
Minimum admission score: 40 points plus NBT score in the Proficient range
Probable admission score: 46 points or above plus NBT score in the Proficient range
At least a C symbol in two A Level subjects (including Mathematics PLUS Physics or Chemistry) and an A in the remaining
subject (Physics or Chemistry) and in English, both of which may be at AS or IGCSE Level.

MBChB

Advanced Subsidiary (AS) Level
Minimum admission score: 40 points plus NBT score in the Proficient range
Probable admission score: 46 points or above plus NBT score in the Proficient range
AS and IGCSE level subject requirements: At least B in four AS level subjects (including Mathematics and Physics and
Chemistry), and a B symbol in English, which may be at IGCSE.
International Baccalaureate
Minimum admission score: 40 points plus NBT score in the Proficient range
Probable admission score: 46 points or above plus NBT score in the Proficient range
At least grade 5 in three higher level subjects, two of which must be Mathematics and/or Chemistry and/or Physics and/or
English
At least grade 5 in the remaining two subjects (Physics or Chemistry or Mathematics or English not taken at higher level),
which may be at standard level. Mathematical Studies is not acceptable.
IB applicants need to be in possession of the IB Diploma, not the Certificate.
Advanced (A) Level
Minimum admission score: 36 points plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate.
Probable admission score: 44 points or above plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate or above.
At least an A symbol in two A level subjects (A level subjects must include Mathematics or Physics or Chemistry or Biology);
plus
At least an A at AS Level or IGCSE level in Physics or Chemistry or Mathematics or Biology, if these were not taken at A level;
plus At least a C in English, which may be at AS or IGCSE level.

Advanced Subsidiary (AS) Level
Minimum admission score: 36 points plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate.
Probable admission score: 44 points or above plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate or above.
BSC
At least a C in four AS Level subjects, of which two must be Mathematics, Physics, or Chemistry (Biology may be substituted
PHYSIOTHERAPY for Physics and Chemistry)
At least an A in English, which may be at IGCSE Level. If Mathematics is taken at IGCSE Level, a B is also required.
International Baccalaureate
Minimum admission score: 36 points plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate.
Probable admission score: 44 points or above plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate or above.
At least grade 4 in three higher level subjects, two of which must be Mathematics and/or Chemistry and/or Physics and/or
English. (Biology may be substituted for Physics and Chemistry).
At least grade 4 in the remaining two subjects (Physics or Chemistry or Mathematics or English), which may be at
standard level. (Biology may be substituted for Physics and Chemistry.)
If Mathematics is at standard level, Physics and Chemistry or Biology must be at higher level.

44

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

Advanced (A) Level
Minimum admission score: 36 points plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate.
Probable admission score: 44 points or above plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate or above.
At least a C symbol in two A level subjects (A level subjects must include Mathematics or Physics or Chemistry or
Biology); plus
At least an A at AS level or IGCSE Level in Physics or Chemistry or Mathematics
or Biology, if these were not taken at A level; plus
At least a C in English, which may be at AS or IGCSE Level.

BSC
OCCUPATIONAL
THERAPY

Advanced Subsidiary (AS) Level
Minimum admission score: 36 points plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate.
Probable admission score: 44 points or above plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate or above.
At least a C in four AS level subjects, of which two must be Mathematics, Physics, or Chemistry (Biology may be
substituted for Physics and Chemistry)
At least an A in English, which may be at IGCSE level. If Mathematics is taken at IGCSE Level, a B is required.
International Baccalaureate
Minimum admission score: 36 points plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate.
Probable admission score: 44 points or above plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate or above.
At least grade 4 in three higher level subjects, two of which must be Mathematics and/or Chemistry and/or Physics and/or
English. (Biology may be substituted for Physics and Chemistry).
At least grade 4 in the remaining two subjects (Physics or Chemistry or Mathematics or English), which may be at
standard level. (Biology may be substituted for Physics and Chemistry.)
If Mathematics is at standard level, Physics and Chemistry or Biology must be at higher level.
Advanced (A) Level
Minimum admission score: 36 points plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate.
Probable admission score: 44 points or above plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate or above.
At least a C symbol in two A level subjects (A level subjects must include Mathematics or Physics or Chemistry or
Biology); plus
At least an A at AS level or IGCSE Level in Physics or Chemistry or Mathematics or Biology, if these were not taken at A
level; plus
At least a C in English, which may be at AS or IGCSE Level.

BSC AUDIOLOGY
AND BSC
SPEECHLANGUAGE
PATHOLOGY

Advanced Subsidiary (AS) Level
Minimum admission score: 36 points plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate.
Probable admission score: 44 points or above plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate or above.
At least a C in four AS level subjects, of which two must be Mathematics, Physics, or Chemistry (Biology may be
substituted for Physics and Chemistry)
At least an A in English, which may be at IGCSE level. If Mathematics is taken at IGCSE Level, a B is required.
International Baccalaureate
Minimum admission score: 36 points plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate.
Probable admission score: 44 points or above plus NBT score of Higher Intermediate or above.
At least grade 4 in three higher level subjects, two of which must be Mathematics and/or Chemistry and/or Physics and/or
English. (Biology may be substituted for Physics and Chemistry).
At least grade 4 in the remaining two subjects (Physics or Chemistry or Mathematics or English), which may be at
standard level. (Biology may be substituted for Physics and Chemistry.)
If Mathematics is at standard level, Physics and Chemistry or Biology must be at higher level.

45

CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS FOR DEGREE PROGRAMS
WHO ARE COMPLETING OR HAVE COMPLETED A DEGREE
AT A TERTIARY INSTITUTION

final year of study must:
• meet the core school subject requirements and
minimum performance levels outlined
• not have failed any courses at tertiary level
• meet minimum GPA requirements of at least 75%
or above for the MBChB programme and 65% or
above for Health and Rehabilitation programmes
(Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, Audiology
and Speech Language Pathology.

The Faculty of Heath Sciences receives an exceptionally
high volume of applications for a limited number of tertiary
places. Most of the applications are of an exceptionally
high standard and thus the competition for places is
significant. Meeting the minimum criteria is no guarantee
for acceptance to study in your chosen programme.

For any further queries email the faculty admissions office
(fhs-ug-admiss@uct.ac.za)

ELIGIBILITY FOR PROBABLE ADMISSION
Two categories of transferring applicants are considered:
1. Applicants who are in year one or two of a three-year
degree programme & Applicants
who are in year one, two or three of a four-year degree
programme must:
• meet the school subject requirements and minimum
performance levels outlined (APS)
• meet NBTs at intermediate or proficient levels (NBT
results remain valid for three years)
• meet the minimum Band C FPS for that programme
• meet minimum GPA requirements of at least 75%
or above for the MBChB programme and 65% or
above for Health and Rehabilitation programmes
(Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, Audiology
and Speech Language Pathology).not have failed
any courses at tertiary level
2. Applicants who have obtained a qualification or are in

ADMISSION DIRECT TO SECOND YEAR MBCHB OF TERTIARY APPLICANTS MEETING SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
A small number of graduates who have completed either
an approved undergraduate or postgraduate degree, may
be offered a place in second year provided
a) you have received a firm offer
b) there is class capacity and
c) have met the tertiary applicant criteria.
For any further queries email the faculty admissions office
(fhs-ug-admiss@uct.ac.za)

46

|

FACULTY OF
HUMANITIES

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

ABOUT THE FACULTY
The Faculty of Humanities is home to more than 6900 undergraduate
and postgraduate students. The Faculty is comprised of 19 academic
departments located in three main clusters:
•
•

•

The Arts: The Languages, History, Linguistics, Film and Media Studies,
and Art History and Discourse of Art.
The Social Sciences: African Studies, Anthropology, Gender Studies,
Sociology, the Study of Religions, Social Work and Social Development,
Politics, Education, Psychology, Philosophy and Knowledge and
Information Stewardship.
The Performing and Creative Arts: Fine Art, Social Development and
Performance Studies.

Each of our academic departments offers a wide selection
of courses and disciplines, giving students more freedom
of choice in tailoring their academic experience. The
Faculty of Humanities attracts students and academics
from across the globe and we are the most popular
destination for Semester Study Abroad students. This
means that our students are exposed to a rich diversity of
knowledge, experience and best practice.
Did you know that a Humanities qualification prepares
you for a multitude of career paths in the public sector,
the corporate workplace and in academia? Our graduates

are sought-after in the local and international job markets.
This is because Humanities academic courses foster
flexibility, imagination, social sensitivity, language
competence, critical thinking, analytical reasoning and
the capacity to solve complex societal problems.
Humanities undergraduate qualifications have vocational
outcomes, applied and policy content and lead to
advanced postgraduate study as well as to a variety of
exciting careers.

WHAT WE OFFER
HUMANITIES UNDERGRADUATE QUALIFICATIONS
The Faculty of Humanities offers undergraduate students a wide variety of academic courses, diploma, advanced diploma,
degree, advanced certificate and higher certificate options. The five categories of qualifications on offer to our undergraduates
are set out in the following table.

QUALIFICATION TYPE

QUALIFICATION

Higher Certificate (HC)

Higher Certificate in Adult and Community Education and Training

Advanced
Certificates (AC)

Advanced Certificate in Foundation Phase Teaching
Advanced Certificate in Intermediate Phase Teaching
Advanced Certificate in Senior Phase Teaching

Diplomas (Dip)

Diploma in Music Performance
Diploma in Theatre & Performance

6

Advanced
Diplomas (AdvDip)

Advanced Diploma in Adult and Community
Education & Training
Advanced Diploma in School Leadership & Management

7

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Social Science
Bachelor of Social Science in Philosophy, Politics and Economics

7

Bachelor of Arts in Fine Art
Bachelor of Arts in Theatre & Performance
Bachelor of Music
Bachelor of Social Work

8

Bachelors
Degrees

NQF EXIT LEVEL

48

5

6

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

ARTS AND SOCIAL SCIENCES DEGREES
There are two types of degree curricula leading to a Bachelor
of Arts degree or a Bachelor of Social Science degree: a
general degree and degrees with structured curricula.

BACHELOR OF ARTS
MAJORS

BACHELOR OF SOCIAL
SCIENCE MAJORS

MAJORS OFFERED BY
DEPARTMENTS NOT ESTABLISHED
IN THE FACULTY OF HUMANITIES

Afrikaans
African Languages & Literatures
Arabic Language & Literature
Art History and Discourse of Art
Business French
Chinese Studies
Classical Studies
English
Film & Television Studies
French
German
Hebrew Language & Literature
History
Italian
Linguistics
Media & Writing
Music
Portuguese
Spanish
Theatre & Dance Studies
Xhosa Communication

African Studies
Anthropology
Economics
Gender Studies
Industrial Sociology
Philosophy
Politics and Governance
Psychology
Social Development
Sociology
The Study of Religions

Applied Mathematics
Applied Statistics
Archaeology
Computer Science
Environmental & Geographical
Science
Informatics
Law (see entry on page 52)
Mathematics
Mathematical Statistics
Organisational Psychology

TAKE NOTE OF THE FOLLOWING FOR THE GENERAL
DEGREE:

GENERAL DEGREES
The majority of students in the Faculty register for one of
the three-year general degrees. The Bachelor of Arts (BA) and
Bachelor of Social Science (BSocSc) degrees offer a flexible
structure in which students can choose their own courses
from a wide selection, following certain rules over the three
years of the degree, and ending up with a specialisation in
two or more subjects. These specialisations are known as
course majors.

We accept you for the degree, not for specific majors.
•
Most of the majors have no additional entrance
requirements and are open to all general degree
students: you may automatically register for the courses
in your chosen major once you have been accepted,
provided they do not have additional requirements.
•
The main exceptions are Law, Economics and Psychology
and most majors housed in the Faculty of Science,
which do have additional entrance requirements, which
you would have to fulfil before being allowed to take
those courses.
•
Because most of the majors are open to any BA or
BSocSc students, we do not ask you to specify them
when you apply; we wish to know only if you are
interested in Music. All other majors you can specify
when you register. You are very likely to change your
mind about which majors you wish to take after you
have submitted your application, after you receive more
information during Orientation and even during your first
year of study. This is not a problem: the general degree is
designed to be flexible and allow you to try subjects out
and change your mind about which majors you wish to
follow, as long as you can demonstrate that your degree
will be completed in a total of n+1 years at UCT, which for
the general degrees is a maximum of four years and the
extended degrees a maximum of five years.

The full list of available Arts and Social Science majors is
set out in the above table. Humanities students may select
courses from other faculties as a second major, but must
have at least one major offered by departments established
in the Faculty of Humanities.
While the general degrees allow freedom of choice, students
must nevertheless comply with certain minimum
requirements. The curriculum must include at least two
majors with 20 semester courses, of which at least ten
must be senior courses and 12 must be Humanities courses.
In addition, the following combinations of majors are not
offered: French and Business French; Sociology and Industrial
Sociology; Economics and Organisational Psychology;
Economics and Informatics; and Organisational Psychology
and Informatics.

49

EXTENDED PROGRAMMES OF STUDY

DEGREES WITH STRUCTURED CURRICULA

The extended programmes of study are offered to South
African applicants who show the potential to succeed with
additional academic support. Applicants are considered on
the basis of their performance in the NBTs, FPS and on their
educational background. The extended programme of study
leads to a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Social Science
degree but is structured over four years.

Structured degrees are special combinations of disciplines
and courses, which have been designed to provide you with a
particular knowledge and skills base. Every structured degree
is made up of specific, prescribed courses for each year of
study, and every year of study builds on the knowledge and
skills developed during the previous year. With the exception
of the BSocSc in Philosophy, Politics and Economics (which
takes a minimum of three years), all structured degrees
extend over four years.

Students registered for the extended programmes of study
receive additional academic support through
two introductory Humanities courses in their
first year. They also receive additional tutorial
support through courses which augment
their semester subject courses in both
their first and second year of study.

STRUCTURED DEGREES IN THE HUMANITIES
•
•
•
•

As additional academic support is
not available in Economics, Law or
majors offered by the Faculty of
Science (with the exception of
Environmental and Geographical
Science), students registered for
the extended programmes of
study will not be able to
pursue majors
in
these
subjects.

•

Bachelor of Arts in Fine Art (BA FA) *
Bachelor of Arts in Theatre & Performance (BA T&P)*
Bachelor of Music (BMus) *
Bachelor of Social Science in Philosophy, Politics and
Economics (BSocSc PPE)
Bachelor of Social Work (BSW)

GENERAL DEGREES WITH SPECIALISATIONS OFFERED
IN THE HUMANITIES
The Faculty also offers a number of specialisations. These are
general degrees which offer specialised curricula in particular
subject areas or disciplines, and which may have additional
admission requirements.
•
Bachelor of Arts specialising in Film and Media
Production (BA FMP)
•
Bachelor of Music specialisations are listed with the
Performing and Creative Arts degrees
* Further details on these degrees can be found in the
section ‘Structured degrees and diplomas in the performing
and creative arts’ in the tables outlining the admissions
requirements on pages 55 - 56.

BACHELOR OF SOCIAL SCIENCE IN PHILOSOPHY,
POLITICS AND ECONOMICS
This classic combination of Philosophy, Politics and
Economics (PPE) involves an academically rigorous grounding
in all of these closely connected subjects, as well as
the opportunity to specialise in at least one of them.
Students not only follow a curriculum designed in
consultation with all three participating academic
disciplines, but also have the opportunity to
participate in an annual PPE Humanities
Colloquium and essay competition.

50

|

After the PPE, depending on the courses they have chosen,
students may study for Honours degrees in any of the three
fields or in PPE. Graduates of the PPE have followed many
careers, including work in commerce, government and nongovernmental organisations.

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

Admission to the performing and creative arts degrees is
highly competitive. Applicants in Music, Dance or Theatre
will be required to perform satisfactorily in an audition, and
applicants for the Fine Art degree are required to complete
a supplementary application questionnaire (part of the
application booklet, and downloadable from the online
application screens) as well as submit a portfolio of work for
consideration.

BACHELOR OF SOCIAL WORK+
https://socialdevelopment.uct.ac.za
Social Workers interact with individuals, families, groups and
communities in life-skills training, adult education, economic
empowerment and various prevention programmes.
Social Work also entails social research, the analysis and
formulation of social policies and the management of social
service programmes. This qualification enables students to
register as professional social workers with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions. Successful applicants
may be eligible for funding to assist with their studies (details
are available from the Department of Social Work and Social
Development). Applicants may be required to attend an
admissions interview and demonstrate successfully that
they will meet the professional requirements of the South
African Council for Social Service Professions. (Details on
government-funded study bursaries are available from the
national Department of Social Development)

As long as the FPS and NBT scores meet the minimum
requirements for admission, the leading indicator for admission
is performance in the audition/portfolio submission, and
places are awarded on merit.

DANCE
https://dance.uct.ac.za
The following qualifications are offered:
•
Bachelor of Arts in Theatre & Performance (BA T&P) – 4
years
•
Diploma in Theatre & Performance (DTP) – 3 years
These qualifications are designed to cater equally for
aspirant professional dancers, choreographers, designers,
dance teachers and academics. An audition is required for
admission. The Head of the Centre for Theatre, Dance and
Performance Studies may motivate for consideration of other
qualifications or experience in lieu of the NBT requirement
where an applicant shows exceptional talent in the audition.
Please refer to the specific admission requirements in the
tables on pages 55 - 56.

+ Since first-year Psychology is a compulsory course in the
Social Work degree, all students accepted for the Social Work
degree will be accepted to first-year Psychology courses.
Admission to elective senior Psychology courses is subject to
meeting course-specific admission requirements.

THEATRE

BACHELOR OF ARTS SPECIALISING IN FILM
AND MEDIA PRODUCTION

https://drama.uct.ac.za
The following qualifications are offered:
•
Bachelor of Arts in Theatre & Performance (BA T&P)
– 4 years
•
Diploma in Theatre & Performance (DTP) – 3 years

https://cfms.uct.ac.za
This specialisation seeks to develop a range of practical,
theoretical, historical, and analytical skills in the areas of film,
media, and visual studies. Students initially register for a BA
degree with majors in Film and Television Studies and Media
& Writing.

These qualifications are intended for those who wish to
work professionally in the theatre as performers, makers,
designers, teachers, and facilitators or as academics and
researchers. An audition is required for admission. The Head
of the Centre for Theatre, Dance and Performance. Studies
may motivate for consideration of other qualifications or
experience in lieu of the NBT requirement where an applicant
shows exceptional talent in the audition. Please refer to the
specific admission requirements in the tables on pages 54
- 56. Students in the general Bachelor of Arts degree may
choose to study Theatre and Dance Studies academic
courses as part of a general degree curriculum. Auditions are
not required to register for these courses.

For the first eighteen months of studies, all students take the
same core courses, regardless of whether they are intending
to follow a general degree with double majors in Film and
Television Studies and Media & Writing, or whether they are
hoping to follow the structured curriculum specialisation in
Film and Media Production (FMP).
As formal acceptance for the FMP specialisation only occurs
in the second semester of the second year, students are
initially accepted and registered for the general Bachelor of
Arts degree. Selection criteria are explained during the first
year of study. Students would be expected to work in media
on campus and to find internships in the media industry
should they be selected for the Film and Media Production
specialisation.

FINE ART
https://michaelis.uct.ac.za
The qualification is offered as:
• Bachelor of Arts in Fine Art (BA FA) – 4 years

STRUCTURED DEGREES AND DIPLOMAS IN THE PERFORMING AND CREATIVE ARTS

The BA(FA) is a four-year degree that offers specialist and
interdisciplinary training in all aspects of visual art. The
Michaelis School of Fine Art has well-equipped studios
offering photography, new media, painting, print media,
sculpture and curatorship. The degree also equips students

Undergraduate degrees and diplomas in this field include
qualifications in Dance, Theatre, Fine Art and Music.

51

DIPLOMA IN MUSIC PERFORMANCE STREAMS

with the critical and theoretical skills necessary for the
context-specific understanding of contemporary art
practice. The degree is designed to enable students to
develop as artists at a level of best practice.

African Music
Jazz Studies
Opera
Classical
World Music

Studio work practical concentrations offered are: painting,
sculpture, photography, printmedia and new media. In the
fourth year of study, students follow individual study streams
that have been chosen in consultation with members of the
teaching staff. Students are expected to produce a body of
work to a professional standard in their final year.

EDUCATION
https://education.uct.ac.za
The School of Education is located within the Faculty of
Humanities. An initial teacher education qualification is
offered only at postgraduate level. To follow a career in
teaching it is necessary to obtain an undergraduate degree
in the Faculties of Humanities, Commerce or Science before
applying for admission to a one-year Postgraduate Certificate
in Education (PGCE). Undergraduate requirements for
primary and secondary school teachers vary and applicants
are encouraged to contact the School of Education for
advice before planning their degree curriculum.

MUSIC
https://sacm.uct.ac.za
The following qualifications are offered:
• Bachelor of Music (BMus) - 4 years
• Diploma in Music Performance (DMP) - 3 years
The South African College of Music offers training in the
entire range of orchestral instruments, piano, organ, voice,
African percussion and jazz. The College boasts several
string, wind, jazz and percussion ensembles, as well as
choirs, a symphony orchestra and the Jazz Big Band. In
addition, the Opera School annually presents a season of
opera performances.

The School of Education offers the following two
undergraduate programmes in Adult and Community
Education and Training (ACET): an entry level qualification
(the Higher Certificate in ACET) and the post-professional
qualification (the Advanced Diploma in ACET). UCT
does however not offer any initial professional teaching
qualifications in ACET, which lead to professionally qualified
status which is necessary for teaching in a Community
Learning Centre (CLC). Our ACET programmes are designed
to create bridges and ladders into formal study particularly
for adult learners who have practice experience within the
non-formal sector or CLC but who may not have all the
requirements to enter a learning programme.

All students are required either to play in the orchestras
or ensembles, or sing in the choirs, at the discretion of the
Director of the College of Music. Students who complete
diploma or degree courses are ready to enter the professional
world of music as performers, teachers, composers,
researchers and audio technologists.

BACHELOR OF MUSIC
Alternative admission is done through Recognition of Prior
Learning (RPL), which was introduced in 1994 as a formal
process, particularly for people who fall short of entry
qualifications but have the necessary experience and
knowledge to enter a programme.

This degree is offered in the following subject focus or
streams: General, Performance, Music Technology and
Composition. Please refer to the specific admission
requirements in the tables on pages 55 - 56. In addition
to the general Bachelor of Music, students can pursue the
following curriculum specialisations or streams.

LAW

BACHELOR OF MUSIC STREAMS

https://law.uct.ac.za
Students may pursue a BA/BSocSc with a major in Law from
their second year of study. To be considered for admission to
the Law major in the general BA/BSocSc degrees, candidates
must have performed well enough in their school-leaving
examinations and the NBTs to gain admission to the Bachelor
of Laws (LLB) OR must have passed all the courses from their
first year of study at the first sitting and have achieved an
average of at least 65% in a standard first year curriculum
(i.e. eight semester courses, excluding summer and winter
term courses).

African Music Performance
General
Jazz Studies
Music Technology
Opera
Classical Composition
Classical Performance

DIPLOMA IN MUSIC PERFORMANCE
This qualification offers a similar practical curriculum to that
of the Bachelor of Music but excludes some of the academic
subjects prescribed for the degree programme and is of three
years’ duration only. It is designed to prepare students for
careers in particular practical curriculum specialisations or
streams. Please refer to the specific admission requirements
in the tables on pages 55 - 56.

Candidates can apply for admission to graduate LLB study
through the Faculty of Law during their final year in the BA/
BSocSc either with or without a Law major. The graduate LLB
comprises at least a further two years of study depending
on the undergraduate majors. Applicants who complete
their first degree will be considered on a competitive basis,
taking into account UCT’s admissions policy.

The Diploma in Music Performance is available in the
following five curriculum specialisations or streams.

52

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

MAJORS FALLING UNDER THE FACULTY OF SCIENCE

To be considered for admission to the Law major, students
in the extended (4-year degree) programme for the general
BA/BSocSci degrees must have passed all their courses in
their first and second years of registration on a standard
courseload (i.e. 6 semester courses per year, excluding corequisite Augmenting courses) on a first sitting and have
obtained a cumulative weighted grade point average (GPA)
of at least 65% after completion of the second year of the
extended programme.

Students should refer to the relevant entries under the
Faculty of Science section in this prospectus for specific
admission requirements to their course majors.

APPLICANTS TRANSFERRING FROM ANOTHER HIGHER
EDUCATION INSTITUTION
The Faculty of Humanities has a limited number of places
for those applicants who wish to transfer from another
institution. These places are reserved for students who
have not been excluded from the other institution and have
achieved a high average. Normally, an average of at least
65% across a full load of courses is required with offers
typically made at 70% and above. The admission decision
is based on both the FPS and the tertiary record. Further
advice for applicants in this category can be found on the
Faculty website: https://humanities.uct.ac.za/hum/apply/
undergraduate/transtudents

The 65% GPA is the minimum requirement for candidates
to be eligible for consideration for a place on a competitive
basis. It does not guarantee a place. Given the large number
of candidates who apply for the law major and the fact that
places are limited and are offered on a competitive basis to
candidates with the highest GPA, it is likely that a candidate
will require a GPA well above 65% in order to actually
receive a place. Results in supplementary examinations are
not included when calculating the first-year average but
the results of deferred examinations are included. Please
note that the Law Faculty retains the discretion to admit
Humanities students with an average of less than 65% on
redress grounds.

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND THE CALCULATION OF
POINTS
For applicants writing the National Senior Certificate, consult
page 16 for information on the calculation of scores. Specific
subject requirements: all applicants must have achieved
a minimum of 50% for English Home Language or 60%
for English First Additional Language (FAL). For applicants
completing the National Senior Certificate, Life Orientation
must be passed at 50%, but is not included in the points
calculation. Applicants with an international or non-NSC
school-leaving qualification are considered on an individual
basis. Details of the minimum admission criteria, and how to
calculate your Admission Point Score (APS), can be found in
the table on page 16.

MAJORS WITH QUANTITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
Admission to major subjects with a strong quantitative
component in the curriculum carry additional entrance
requirements. To pursue courses with quantitative
requirements as part of the curriculum, applicants must meet
subject-specific requirements in either NSC Mathematics (or
equivalent).
NSC Mathematical Literacy or specified achievement in
the Quantitate Literacy (QL) component of the NBT may
be considered in lieu of NSC Mathematics for some
subjects.

ECONOMICS
https://commerce.uct.ac.za/school-economics
Students require NSC results of at least 60% in
Mathematics for admission to the Economics
major. The equivalent Cambridge results are at
least a B at AS-level or D at A-level.

PSYCHOLOGY
https://psychology.uct.ac.za
Students wishing to pursue a major in
Psychology require NSC results of at least 50%
in NSC Mathematics or a score of Proficient for
the Quantitative Literacy (QL) component of
the NBT.
Students who meet neither the NSC
Mathematics nor QL requirement may
be required to enrol for Mathematics
foundation courses as a pre-requisite or
co-requisite to their first year Psychology
courses. Evaluation and placement into
these courses is done during Orientation.

NA-

53

HIGHER CERTIFICATE IN ADULT AND
COMMUNITY EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(ACET) NQF LEVEL 5
The Higher Certificate is an access and
introductory qualification to the study
of ACET in a higher education institution
and training context. This is an entry level
qualification which is intended to provide
learners with basic introductory knowledge,
cognitive and conceptual tools and practical
techniques to enable further study in ACET.
This qualification is underpinned by the
values of engaged citizenship, social justice
and transformation which are important
strategic goals of the university.
It aims to develop learners who are
capable of applying such knowledge and
competence as adult education, training
and development practitioners. It also
provides a route into the Diploma in Adult
and Community Education and Training,
which is not offered at UCT.

ADVANCED DIPLOMA IN ADULT AND
COMMUNITY EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(ACET) NQF LEVEL 7
This qualification is offered as a continuing
professional development qualification
for Adult Education Training (AET) and
Community Education and Training (CET)
lecturers at the community colleges and
further education and training centres, art
colleges, adult education centres, and adult
educators in NGOs, trade unions, human
resource development, health education,
religious
education
and
education
programmes based in local government,
libraries and museums.
The purpose of the qualification is to
strengthen and enhance an existing
specialisation in a subject or field, or to
develop a new role or practice to support
teaching and learning in ACET.

TIONAL BENCHMARK TESTS (NBTS)
Applicants to the Faculty of Humanities need only write the Academic
& Quantitative Literacy test and not the Mathematics test unless
they intend to take courses in Mathematics. The NBT scores are used
to complement the Faculty Point Score (FPS) in making admissions
decisions. As the NBT assesses entry-level academic proficiency, an
applicant with a Lower Intermediate or Basic score on the Academic
Literacy (AL) portion of the NBT will not normally be considered for
admission to degree studies in the Faculty of Humanities.
The results of the Quantitative Literacy (QL) section are usually only
used for entry into Humanities degrees that have Psychology or any
other course which has quantitative requirements as part of the
curriculum. The NBT test is also used as a placement indicator to
identify applicants in need of language development courses, or other
additional academic support; and as an indicator, along with the FPS,
of eligibility for an early offer or an Entrance Scholarship. South African
applicants will usually not be considered until an NBT score is available.
Applicants who are unable to write the NBT test during the scheduled
sessions in the year preceding admission (for example an applicant
who is out of the country on a gap year) may be made a conditional
offer on the basis of excellent results, on condition that the NBT test is
written, and results available, prior to Orientation and Registration. No
Entrance Scholarship will be awarded without an NBT score.

NSC REQUIREMENTS SELECTION PROCEDURES
Applicants are considered on the basis of final secondary schoolleaving results and the NBT score. Where final secondary schoolleaving results are not available, the Faculty will initially consider
an application for a provisional or conditional offer on the basis of
internal examination results and the NBT score.
In addition to the selection process and admission points
requirements, admission to the Performing and Creative Arts degrees
includes the assessment of a portfolio and/or a successful audition.
Please refer to the specific admission requirements stipulated for
Fine Art, Theatre & Performance, Dance and Music. These are in the
tables on pages 55 - 56.
Applicants for the Performing and Creative Arts are advised to liaise
with the relevant departments for assistance in preparing for the
audition or portfolio. You are also advised to consult the following
websites for information pertaining to current selection procedures:
Michaelis School of Fine Art: https://michaelis.uct.ac.za
South African College of Music: https://music.uct.ac.za /
https://sacm.uct.ac.za

The qualification aims are to offer intellectual
enrichment in Adult Learning Theory and
Practice and Policy & Development towards
Social Change and to offer an intensive
focus on two applied specialisms namely
Curriculum Studies & Design and Leadership
& Management of an educational project.

54

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS BY QUALIFICATION
BACHELOR OF ARTS IN FINE ART (BA(FA))

BACHELOR OF ARTS (BA) AND BACHELOR OF SOCIAL SCIENCE
(BSocSc)

Minimum requirements: NSC endorsed for degree study/ matric
exemption. FPS 380 with Academic Literacy NBT score at
Intermediate Level. 50% for English (HL) or 60% for English (FAL).
Satisfactory performance in a portfolio evaluation.

Minimum requirements: NSC endorsed for degree study/ matric
exemption. FPS 380 with Academic Literacy NBT score at
Intermediate Level. 50% for English (HL) or 60% for English (FAL).
ELIGIBLE

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
FPS 450 or above
NBT AL: Proficient

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
WPS 450 or above
NBT AL: Upper Intermediate or above

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
FPS 380 or above
NBT AL: Intermediate or above

All applicants

Only SA
applicants in
targeted redress
categories

NOTE: The leading indicator for admission is performance in the
portfolio submission, and places are awarded on merit.

BACHELOR OF SOCIAL SCIENCE IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS
AND ECONOMICS (BSocSc) (PPE)

All applicants

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
FPS 450 or above
NBT AL: Proficient
NBT QL: Upper Intermediate or above
Subject requirements: Mathematics
60% or above

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Possible admission
FPS 380 or above
NBT AL: Intermediate or above
Satisfactory performance in a portfolio
evaluation

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

Possible Admission
Applicants below the minimum requirements
who excel in the portfolio evaluation maybe
considered for admission

BACHELOR OF ARTS IN THEATRE & PERFORMANCE
(BA(T&P))

Minimum requirements: NSC endorsed for degree study/
matric exemption. FPS 450 with Academic Literacy NBT score
at Upper Intermediate and Quantitative Literacy NBT score at
Upper Intermediate. NSC Mathematics 60%. 50% for English
(HL) or 60% for English (FAL).
ELIGIBLE

ELIGIBLE

Minimum requirements: NSC endorsed for degree study/ matric
exemption. FPS 380 with Academic Literacy NBT score at
Intermediate Level. 50% for English (HL) or 60% for English (FAL).
Satisfactory performance in an audition.
NOTE: The leading indicator for admission is performance in the
audition, and places are awarded on merit.
ELIGIBLE

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Possible admission
FPS 380 or above
NBT AL: Intermediate or above
Satisfactory performance in an audition

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

Possible admission
Applicants below the minimum requirements who excel in the audition evaluation
may be considered for admission to the
Diploma in Theatre
and Performance.

BACHELOR OF SOCIAL WORK (BSW)
Minimum requirements: NSC endorsed for degree study/ matric
exemption. FPS 380 with Academic Literacy NBT score at
Intermediate Level 50% for English (HL) or 60% for English (FAL).
Additional Minimum requirements: Applicants may be required
to attend an admissions interview and demonstrate successfully
that they will meet the professional requirements of the South
African Council for Social Service Professionals.
ELIGIBLE

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
FPS 450 or above
NBT AL: Proficient

All applicants

Band B
WPS

Probable admission
WPS 450 or above
NBT AL: Upper Intermediate or
above

Only SA applicants
in targeted redress
categories

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
FPS 380 or above
NBT AL: Intermediate or above

55

BACHELOR OF MUSIC (BMUS)

HIGHER CERTIFICATE IN ADULT AND COMMUNITY
EDUCATION AND TRAINING (ACET)

Minimum requirements: NSC endorsed for degree study.
FPS 380 with Academic Literacy NBT score at Intermediate
Level. 50% for English (HL) or 60% for English (FAL). Satisfactory
performance in an audition, interview and music theory test.

Minimum requirements: It is an entry level, non-professional
qualification for those who have at least two-years practitioner
experience but no education and training at this level.

NOTE: The leading indicator for admission is performance in the
audition, and places are awarded on merit.
ELIGIBLE

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Possible admission
FPS 380 or above
NBT AL: Intermediate or above
Satisfactory performance in an audition,
interview and music theory test.
Subject requirements:
NSC Music 60% or above
Unisa Music Theory Grade V or above
Unisa Music Practical Grade VII or above

Only SA
applicants in
targeted redress
categories

ELIGIBLE

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Possible admission
A National Senior Certificate or A Level 4 National
Certificate (Vocational)
or An appropriate Level 4 Certificate in Adult
Education and Training
or Community Education and Training or Early
Childhood Education
or via Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).

NOTE: Preference will be given to persons with two years’
experience in adult education.

ADVANCED DIPLOMA IN ADULT AND COMMUNITY
EDUCATION AND TRAINING (ACET)

Possible admission
Applicants below the minimum
requirements who excel in the audition
evaluation may be considered for
admission to the Diploma in Music
Performance.

ELIGIBLE

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

An approved and recognised level 6 Diploma in ACET;
or a level 7 Postgraduate Certificate in Education;
or a BEd degree in ACET;
or a historically equivalent qualification in adult
education;
or an Advanced Diploma in Adult and Community
Education and Training Teaching;
or a new Advanced Certificate (Level 6 on the current
10-level NQF) which followed a former Diploma in
Education (including a National Professional Diploma
in Education) may also be presented for admission to
an Advanced Diploma;
or via Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
AND at least two years of experience as adult
community educators and trainers.

DIPLOMA IN MUSIC PERFORMANCE (DMP)
Minimum requirements: NSC endorsed for diploma study.
Academic Literacy NBT score at Intermediate Level. 50%
for English (HL) or 60% for English (FAL). Satisfactory
performance in an audition, interview and music theory test.
NOTE: The leading indicator for admission is performance in
the audition, and places are awarded on merit.
ELIGIBLE

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Possible admission
NSC endorsed for diploma studies.
NBT AL: Intermediate or above
Satisfactory performance in an audition,
interview and music theory test

DIPLOMA IN THEATRE & PERFORMANCE (DTP)
Minimum requirements: NSC endorsed for diploma study.
Academic Literacy NBT score at Intermediate Level. 50% for
English (HL) or 60% for English (FAL).
Satisfactory performance in an audition.
NOTE: The leading indicator for admission is performance in
the audition, and places are awarded on merit.
ELIGIBLE

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All applicants

Possible admission
NSC endorsed for diploma studies
NBT AL: Intermediate or above
Satisfactory performance in an audition

56

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS WITH NONSOUTH AFRICAN SCHOOL-LEAVING QUALIFICATIONS

GENERAL CERTIFICATE OF EDUCATION ADVANCED AND
ADVANCED SUBSIDIARY (GCE A-LEVEL AND AS-LEVEL)
APPLICANTS

Applications are also invited from those who have successfully
completed a non-South African secondary school-leaving
qualification. To be considered for admission, all applicants
must qualify for matriculation exemption from the Matriculation
Board. The criteria specified for matriculation exemption are the
minimum entry requirements and do not guarantee admission.
The sole subject requirement for all qualifications is English for
which a pass is required for admission. Some qualifications may
carry additional subject requirements, and particular subjects
may also be required for matriculation exemption.

To meet the minimum requirements for matriculation
exemption, applicants must hold at least two A-level
subjects at grade E or above and at least three IGSCE/ GSCE
subjects at grade C or above including English Language and
an approved second language. Where an applicant does not
hold A-levels, at least four AS-levels are required at grade D
or above and at least one approved IGSCE/ GSCE subject
at grade C or above including English Language and an
approved second language.
It is important to note that matriculation exemption requires
specific subject combinations and that certain subjects
are not recognised. To qualify for admission to Humanities
qualifications, applicants should have passed two A-level
subjects at grade C or above. Where an applicant has not
completed A-level subjects, AS-levels may be accepted at
the rate of two AS-levels for each required A-level.

Admission is competitive and each application is evaluated
individually on its merits. Assessment is based on performance
in the top six secondary school leaving subjects beginning
with the most senior subject passed. A points rating system
is used to guide admission decisions. The APS in the tables on
page 58, reflect the level at which you are likely to receive an
offer. While your application is assessed with reference to your
APS, additional factors may be taken into account and each
application is considered on its individual merits, particularly for
admission to qualifications in the performing and creative arts.

To calculate your Admission Point Score (APS), combine your
best A-level subjects with your best relevant IGSCE subjects
to reach a total of six subjects. Each subject can only be
counted once at A-level or IGSCE.

All applicants who are normally resident, or at school, in South
Africa must write the NBT. As the NBT assesses entry-level
academic proficiency, applicants are expected to attain a
Proficient score on the Academic Literacy portion of the test.
The following information is a guide for applicants with
Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE) and
the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma school-leaving
qualifications. CAIE applicants with only International General
Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) or General Certificate
of Secondary Education (GSCE) subjects are not eligible for
admission.

57

NAMIBIAN SECONDARY SCHOOL CERTIFICATE (NSSC)
APPLICANTS

best Higher Level subjects with the best relevant Ordinary
Level subjects to reach a total of six subjects. Each subject can
only be counted once at Higher Level or Ordinary Level.

To meet the minimum requirements for matriculation
exemption, applicants must hold at least four Higher Level
subjects at level 3 or above and at least one Ordinary Level
subject at grade C or above.

INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE (IB) DIPLOMA APPLICANTS

Applicants must hold a full diploma with a minimum of
three higher level subjects from a total of six subjects and a
total of 24 points.

To calculate your Admission Point Score (APS), combine your

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS BY QUALIFICATION
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
FOR ADMISSION

LEVEL AT WHICH YOU ARE LIKELY TO
RECEIVE AN OFFER

English language
(for all qualifications)

A-Level: E
AS-Level: D
NSSC: Grade 3
GCSE/ IGCSE: C
IB HL: Grade 3
IB SL: Grade 4

A-Level: D
AS-Level: B
NSSC: Grade 2
GCSE/ IGCSE: A
IB HL: Grade 4
IB SL: Grade 6

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Social Science
Bachelor of Social Work

Admission Point Score
32

Admission Point Score
38

Admission Point Score
32
Bachelor of Social Science
(Philosophy, Politics and
Economics)

Minimum Mathematics requirement
A-Level: E
AS-Level: C
NSSC: Grade 3
IB HL: Grade 3
IB SL: Grade 5

Admission Point Score
39
Minimum Mathematics
requirement
A-Level: E
AS-Level: C
NSSC: Grade 3
IB HL: Grade 3
IB SL: Grade 5

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Bachelor of Arts (Fine Art)
Bachelor of Arts (Theatre & Performance)
Bachelor of Music

Admission Point Score
32
Satisfactory performance in the portfolio/ audition evaluation

Diploma in Music
Performance
Diploma in Theatre and
Performance

School-leaving qualification endorsed for Diploma studies

Higher Certificate in
Adult and Community
Education and Training

Satisfactory performance in an audition
For Diploma in Music Performance: Satisfactory performance in
a music theory test and interview
A National Senior Certificate or A Level 4 National Certificate (Vocational)
or An appropriate Level 4 Certificate in Adult Education and Training
or Community Education and Training or Early Childhood Education
or via Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).

58

|

FACULTY
OF LAW

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

WHY STUDY LAW?
Students who wish to become legal practitioners require an LLB
(Bachelor of Laws) degree. An LLB is the universal general qualification
for the practice of law, although the content of the LLB programme
differs from country to country. During the course of the LLB degree
students are taught the fundamentals of South African law and the
South African legal system. At the same time, they are equipped with
the skills necessary to be successful legal practitioners.

SOME OF THE SKILLS THE UCT LLB STRIVES TO
IMPART ARE:

examination set by the relevant provincial law society to
become an attorney. Attorneys’ work includes drafting
legal documents, negotiating settlements of disputes, and
preparing cases for presentation in court.

The ability to read, comprehend, and critically evaluate
complex documents, including cases and legislation; the
ability to write clearly, logically, coherently, and succinctly;
and the ability to analyse and solve problems.

Attorneys take instructions from members of the public and,
if necessary, may brief or seek an opinion from an advocate.
Obtaining the LLB does not automatically entitle noncitizens and non- permanent residents of South Africa to be
admitted to practise in this country.

By the end of their LLB degrees, graduates are able to
assess, interpret and apply the law, and have the historical,
comparative and jurisprudential background that is
essential for a thorough and critical understanding of legal
institutions, the law and its application.

BUSINESS
Law graduates are to be found across the whole business
spectrum, from small firms to large corporations. They are
legal advisors in tax, real estate, labour relations, contracts,
public information, and acquisitions; they are forensic
auditors and ombudsmen, ethics and employment officers,
and policy and legislative analysts. Publishing firms look for
legal editors, researchers, and writers.

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
LLB graduates are employed in the legal profession and in a
wide variety of positions in the judiciary, government, NGOs,
companies and other enterprises.
Academic
An LLB degree is the first step to an academic career. UCT’s
Master of Laws and Postgraduate Diploma programmes
offer a very broad range of postgraduate courses from which
to select a specialisation.

GOVERNMENT
The Department of Justice employs state attorneys,
prosecutors, legal drafters and of course magistrates and
judges. Law graduates interested in international law can
join the Department of Foreign Affairs or Department of
Trade and Industry. Other government departments at both
national and provincial levels employ lawyers, as do the
National Parliament, provincial legislatures and municipal
councils. In fact, there is no sector of government in which
lawyers do not play a role!

ADVOCATE
LLB graduates undergo one year’s training in pupillage
with a practising member of the Bar. After an admission
examination, the work of an advocate generally involves
research, drafting opinions and pleadings, and presenting
cases in court, most often though not exclusively in the High
Court.

NGOS AND PUBLIC BENEFIT ORGANISATIONS
Advocates must be briefed or instructed by attorneys;
they do not take instructions directly from members of the
public. Obtaining the LLB does not automatically entitle
non-citizens and non-permanent residents of South Africa
to be admitted to practise in this country.

Researchers and lobbyists are in demand and many law
graduates who are committed to the transformation of
South African society work in such organisations.

ATTORNEYS

There are three routes to obtaining an LLB degree:
•
The undergraduate LLB route (minimum of four years in
duration)

THE LLB PROGRAMME

An LLB graduate must serve as a candidate attorney
with a practising attorney and then write a professional

60

|

•
•

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

end of their combined programme; a bachelor’s degree in
the Humanities or Commerce faculty (BA/BSocSci or BCom)
which is awarded at the end of their first three years of study,
and a bachelor’s degree in law (LLB), which is awarded at the
end of a further two years of study.

The combined Humanities and LLB or Commerce and
LLB route (minimum of five years in duration)
The graduate LLB route (minimum of three years in
duration)

Choosing the appropriate route is important. There are
advantages to each. However, the legal education offered by
each route is identical i.e. there is no difference between the
routes as far as the law courses are concerned, and each
of the routes leads to the same endpoint, the award of an
LLB degree. In choosing between the different routes, it
may be helpful for you to consider how well prepared you
are for university studies (i.e. how serious you are about
studying law now, amongst other things) and the amount of
higher education you wish to receive in addition to a legal
education.

It is also possible to do a combined BBusSci LLB programme
which requires at least 6 years of study. At the end of their
Humanities/ Commerce degrees, students will graduate
with a degree in which they have a major in a commerce or
humanities subject and a major in law.
Please note that students must apply for admission to the
Law Faculty at the end of their undergraduate Humanities
or Commerce degree and must obtain a cumulative GPA of
at least 60% in their UCT undergraduate degree in order to
proceed to the two-year graduate LLB degree.

The best approach in choosing your route is to be realistic
about your current ability to deal with a large workload and
lots of reading. In addition, ask yourself whether you prefer
to enter training for a professional qualification immediately
or whether you are interested in other disciplines too.

This route allows candidates who do not meet the
requirements for admission to the undergraduate LLB to
apply for a Humanities or Commerce degree, to adapt to
university studies, and, if they perform satisfactorily in their
first year of study, to join the law stream in their second or
third year at university. The advantage of this route over the
undergraduate LLB route is that a full major in a discipline
other than law is possible, thus resulting in a more rounded
higher education experience.

THE DIFFERENT ROUTES EXPLAINED
The undergraduate LLB (4 years minimum)
The undergraduate LLB is aimed at candidates who do not
already hold a university degree. Most candidates are school
leavers. The admission requirements for this degree are high.
This is because all three LLB streams are taught together in
the same class and school leavers must be able to manage
the workload.

THE GRADUATE LLB (3 YEARS MINIMUM)
The graduate LLB route is for students who have completed
an undergraduate degree in any discipline without having
majored in law. This route allows candidates to complete
a full degree in a discipline other than law and then add
the LLB.

As the description indicates, this route can be completed in
four years, but as a result only a limited number of non-law
courses can be fitted into the curriculum.

THE COMBINED HUMANITIES/COMMERCE LLB (5
YEARS MINIMUM)

This route can be completed in a minimum of six years
(3 + 3). In order to be admitted to the 3-year graduate
LLB, applicants must meet certain advertised admission
requirements and are offered places on a competitive basis.

The combined Law and Humanities or Law and Commerce
route allows candidates to do what is described as an
accelerated combined Humanities/Commerce and LLB
degree. This means that students receive two degrees by the

The advantage of this route over the combined route is that
candidates obtain a broad education in the Humanities,
Commerce or Sciences in addition to their education in law.

61

NB : ALL COPY IS LAST YEARS - ONLY ALL YEARS HAVE BEEN CHANGE UP BY 1 YEARS.
PAGES NO NEED TO ALL BE CHANGE STILL
As a general rule, no more than ten international applicants will be accepted into the
undergraduate LLB programme.
ELIGIBLE

BAND

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

All SA applicants

Band A
FPS

Guaranteed admission
500 FPS or above
NBT scores of proficient for AL
and intermediate or above for QL

All SA applicants

Band B
WPS

Probable Admission
485 WPS or above
NBT scores of proficient for AL
and intermediate or above for QL

Only SA applicants in
targeted redress
categories

Band C
FPS

Possible admission
470 FPS or above
NBT scores of proficient for AL and QL
Probable admission
510 FPS or above
NBT scores of proficient for AL
and intermediate or above for QL

International applicants

ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS WITH NON-SOUTH AFRICAN
SCHOOL-LEAVING CERTIFICATES
For applicants in possession of, or writing, other than South African qualifications, offers of
places may only be made subject to the equivalent bachelor’s exemption being obtained from
the Matriculation Board (refer to mb.usaf.ac.za/exemption-process/ for further information and
online assessment and application).
In addition, candidates writing A-level, AS-level, NSSC or IB Diploma examinations* must meet the
following minimum requirements, obtained using the scoring table in the admissions prospectus.
Meeting these requirements does not guarantee admission which is limited by available capacity.
PROBABLE ADMISSION

MINIMUM ADMISSION

International applicants

46+ APS points

44+ APS points

All SA applicants

44+ APS points

40+ APS points

SA applicants in targeted redress categories

39+ APS points

38+ APS points

* Applicants writing other international authority examinations will be assessed on their
individual merits.
NOTE: As explained in the section on ‘career opportunities’ above, obtaining the LLB does not
automatically entitle non-citizens and non-permanent residents of South Africa to be admitted
to practise as attorney or advocates in this country.

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS HOLDING THE NATIONALSENIOR CERTIFICATE
The Faculty cannot admit all those who apply to study law, as applications vastly exceed the available
places. If there are more applicants who meet the admission criteria than there are places, only the
best applicants in each category will be made an offer.

ADMISSION TO THE 4-YEAR UNDERGRADUATE LLB
Applications are assessed on the basis of the applicant’s results in the National Senior Certificate (NSC)
or other school-leaving examination, together with the applicant’s results in the Academic Literacy and
Quantitative Literacy components of the National Benchmark Tests (NBTs).

ADMISSION TO THE COMBINED LAW AND HUMANITIES OR LAW AND COMMERCE LLB STREAMS

Applicants to the Humanities and Commerce Faculties must meet the admission requirements
of those faculties in order to commence their undergraduate Humanities or Commerce degree.
Students who wish to do a combined degree begin taking law subjects in their second year of study
as an undergraduate major. Students are not automatically permitted to do these law subjects. The
number of places available on the law major stream is limited and varies from year to year. Places

62

|

are offered on a competitive basis to candidates with the
highest results and in accordance with the Law Faculty’s
redress enrolment targets.

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

ADMISSION TO THE GRADUATE LLB
Applicants must obtain an average of at least 65% in a
standard undergraduate degree to be considered for possible
admission to the graduate LLB. This average is calculated
from your results over of all years of your undergraduate
degree. Places are however limited and are allocated to
applicants with the highest averages on a competitive basis
and in accordance with the University’s admissions policy.
Given the large number of applicants and the limited number
of places, it is likely that applicants will require a higher GPA
to actually receive place.

In order to be eligible for consideration for possible (but not
guaranteed) admission to the law major stream of the BA/
BSocSc or BCom/BBusSci degrees, candidates must either
have achieved sufficient points in the NSC and National
Benchmark Tests to have qualified for admission to the fouryear undergraduate LLB degree, on a competitive basis, in
their first year of study OR must have attained an average of
at least 65% in the case of Humanities students and 63% in
the case of Commerce students on a first sitting of a full first
year course load totalling at least 144 credits for Humanities
students and 164 credits for Commerce students.

TRANSFERRING STUDENTS
A UCT student (who has not been excluded) may apply to
transfer to the LLB degree but must satisfy the requirements
for admission to the LLB on a competitive basis. Transferring
applicants will be considered for admission on the basis of
their secondary school-leaving results, their post-school
academic record, their NBT scores (where required) and may
be required to submit a letter of motivation. Successful
applicants may be granted credit or exemption or both for
courses already completed, up to a maximum of four full
courses (or the equivalent).

In order to be eligible for consideration for possible (but not
guaranteed) admission to the law major stream, candidates
in the extended (4-year degree) programme for the general
BA/BSocSci degrees must have passed all their courses in
their first and second years of registration on a standard
course-load (i.e. 6 semester courses per year, excluding
co-requisite Augmenting courses) on a first sitting and
have obtained a cumulative average of at least 65% after
completion of the second year of the extended programme.
Results in supplementary exams are not included when
calculating the average but results in deferred exams are
included.

A non-UCT student who has not been excluded from
another university may apply to transfer to UCT as an LLB
student but must satisfy the requirements for admission to
the LLB on a competitive basis. Successful applicants may
be granted credit or exemption or both for courses already
completed, up to a maximum of four full courses (or the
equivalent).

IMPORTANT NOTES:
The 65% first year GPA for Humanities students and 63% first
year GPA for Commerce students is the minimum requirement
for a candidate to be eligible for consideration for a place on
the law major on a competitive basis. It does not guarantee a
place. Given the large number of candidates who apply for the
law major and the fact that places are limited and are offered
on a competitive basis to candidates with the highest GPAs,
it is likely that a candidate will require a GPA well above 65%
or 63% in order to actually receive a place. The Law
Faculty retains a discretion to admit Humanities
students with an average of less than 65%
and Commerce students with an average
of less than 63% to meet redress category
targets.

Credits and exemptions will only be granted for courses taken
at another institution if the Law Faculty is satisfied that the
courses are substantially equivalent, in both content and
standard, to the courses offered at UCT. Such transferring
students will be required to complete the remaining courses
prescribed for the LLB at UCT over a period of not less than
two years.

Once students have completed their Humanities or Commerce degrees with law
subjects, they must apply to the Law
Faculty for admission to the 2-year
graduate LLB degree. Applicants
for the 2-year graduate LLB are
considered and offered places
on a competitive basis taking
into account the UCT’s admissions policy. However, UCT
applicants who achieve a
cumulative average of at
least 60% in their undergraduate degree are guaranteed
admission to the LLB.

63

FACULTY OF
SCIENCE

ABOUT THE FACULTY
The Faculty of Science at UCT is, by various measures, the best in the
country: it has the largest number of scientists who have been rated
through a rigorous process of international evaluation, and within this
group it has the largest number of those who are acknowledged to be world
leaders in their fields, and who hold an “A” rating. Thus, undergraduate
and postgraduate programmes benefit by being developed and taught
side by side with cutting-edge research. The Faculty of Science offers an
exciting suite of majors (details of which follow), leading to the Bachelor of
Science (BSc) degree. The courses offered within the degree structure are
characterised by their coherence, a good balance between breadth and
depth, and their inter-disciplinary nature.

|

The degree is structured in such a way as to provide graduates
with the range of skills that the job market demands. In
addition, a variety of opportunities exist for postgraduate
study in all Departments; the BSc degree leads to Honours,
Master’s and Doctoral degrees. All degrees in the Faculty of
Science enjoy a high reputation in the private and public
sectors in South Africa, as well as internationally.

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

evidence of human occupation for the last half million years,
offers courses that focus on the prehistory of Africa, with
a particular focus on Southern Africa. Specific research
interests include issues related to human evolution, the
emergence of modern humans, and the history of huntergatherer, pastoralist and farming communities in southern
Africa, as well as the archaeology of more recent colonial
settlement. Visit www.archaeology.uct.ac.za

WHAT WE OFFER

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

The Faculty of Science offers one undergraduate degree, the
Bachelor of Science (BSc). Below are the possible majors
available in the faculty. While every BSc student will take
2 majors, it is possible to take one approved major from a
different faculty.

The current pace of development in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
is unprecedented. The aim of this major is to provide a strong
educational foundation for students wanting to pursue AI as
a career. Students will gain an understanding and be able to
contribute to the fundamental architecture, regulation and
application of AI. To foster crossdisciplinarity and flexibility,
the major is designed to be completed as a co-major
with either Computer Science, Mathematical Statistics or
Mathematics, but other options may be possible depending
on the curriculum. Visit www.sit.uct.ac.za/our-degrees

APPLIED MATHEMATICS
Applied mathematicians transfer mathematical knowledge
and methods into other fields, such as Physics, Computer
Science, Engineering, Biology and the Social Sciences. In this
way mathematics has become one of the most powerful
promoters of scientific developments, since all modern
sciences are founded essentially on mathematical principles.
Many technological developments such as mobile phones,
computers, cars, airplanes and large telescopes were
unthinkable without mathematical progress.
Visit www.math.uct.ac.za

ASTROPHYSICS
The Astrophysics major requires a strong mathematics and
physics foundation. The astronomy courses offered are
general introductory first-year courses which includes the
‘Starfinder’ course held in the Iziko Planetarium as well as
night-sky viewing. Second-year courses which cover nearly
all aspects of modern observational astronomy. Two thirdyear courses enter into the physical processes that lie at the
origin of the observed astronomical phenomena.
Visit www.ast.uct.ac.za

APPLIED STATISTICS
Applied Statistics at UCT straddles the fields of Statistics,
Operational Research and Data Science, covering a range of
quantitative methods for the analysis of data to solve realworld problems and support decision making and policy
development. The field of statistics often attracts those
interested in the analysis of patterns in data: developing,
understanding, abstracting, and packaging analytical
methods for general use in other subject areas. Statisticians
are employed in many fields, including Biology, Finance,
Economics, the Engineering Industry, Medicine, Public
Health, Psychology, Marketing, Government, Education and
Sport Science. Statisticians are key players in the analytics
environment, using their skills to transform large amounts of
data into credible, usable information.
Visit www.stats.uct.ac.za

BIOLOGY
This major is about life on Earth in all its forms - the
adaptations of living organisms, how they live and interact,
and how they originated. With a focus on organismal biology,
this major examines how organisms interrelate with each
other and with their environment, provides the processes
by which organisms and communities are shaped, and how
living organisms affect and/or are affected by humans. This
major aims to explain and account for the patterns that
make up the diversity of terrestrial life that surrounds us.
As human influence on the environment escalates, there
are new challenges as to how biodiversity can be protected
while societies meet their needs.

ARCHAEOLOGY
An understanding of organismal biology is essential in
order to comprehend the intricacies of living systems and

The Department of Archaeology, taking advantage of its
location in a region rich in archaeological heritage, with

65

NB : ALL COPY IS LAST YEARS - ONLY ALL YEARS HAVE BEEN CHANGE UP BY 1 YEARS.
PAGES NO NEED TO ALL BE CHANGE STILL
to predict the future under different
global change scenarios. The southern tip
of Africa holds a treasure house of unusual
plant and animal communities alongside
pressing human needs, which provides exciting
and unique examples from which to learn
about ecology, evolution and biodiversity
conservation.
Visit www.biologicalsciences.uct.ac.za

BIOCHEMISTRY
Biochemistry is the study of the
molecules and chemical processes
which occur in all living organisms.
Biochemistry is fundamental to
understanding
mechanisms
in molecular and cell biology,
and straddles the medical,
biological, chemical and
physical sciences. The
Biochemistry major at
UCT includes the study
of the structures,
physical
properties
and functions of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids,
and nucleic acids; the mechanisms of enzyme
action, the biochemical regulation of metabolism
and energy utilization, and can include a more
in-depth study of the molecular basis of cell
signalling and gene expression, disease as well as
biotechnology. Visit www.mcb.uct.ac.za

CHEMISTRY
Chemistry is often called the ‘central science’
because it forms the basis of every living and
non-living entity in the universe. It has evolved
from the time of the 16th century alchemist to
the present-day chemist who uses advanced
scientific and computational methods. It is the
interface between the mathematical, physical
and biological sciences. Courses offered for this
major cover the fundamental areas of organic,
inorganic and physical chemistry. Theoretical

concepts are underpinned by practical training in modern
chemical techniques, including the use of state-of-the-art
analytical instrumentation. The chemistry major offers a
wide variety of employment opportunities, from laboratory
work to field work. Visit www.chemistry.uct.ac.za
COMPUTER SCIENCE, COMPUTER ENGINEERING &

BUSINESS COMPUTING

A computer science graduate is trained in the principles
underlying computing, including the structure and nature
of computers, the development and use of programming
languages and the application of computers as tools
in problem solving. The specific majors of Computer
Engineering & Business Computing are linked to the primary
Computer Science major, and focus on the application of
computer science to these particular fields. They will be
complemented by courses in the related fields. Students
who complete the BSc major in Computer Science, followed
by the BSc Honours in Computer Science at UCT, become
Chartered I.T. Professionals (UK), since these degrees are
accredited by the British Computer Society as being of an
international standard. Visit www.sit.uct.ac.za/our-degrees

ENVIRONMENTAL & GEOGRAPHICAL SCIENCE
The interaction between humans and their environment and
the variability of this environment is a common theme in the
department’s teaching and research initiatives. The student
gains an integrated approach to the study of the complex
relationships between humans and their social, biological,
and physical life-support systems. Interdisciplinary research
areas within the department include atmospheric science,
climate-change science, quaternary environmental change,
land degradation, integrated environmental management,
urban issues, disaster risk science, developing world issues,
sustainability studies, political geography and remote
sensing. Visit www.egs.uct.ac.za

GENETICS
Students taking the major in Genetics will be taught
fundamental concepts in classical, molecular and
evolutionary genetics. Classical genetics is the study of
heritability and variation in living organisms, whilst molecular
genetics is concerned with understanding the structure and

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

about the diversity of marine life in all its forms and about
the structure and function of various marine ecosystems,
ranging from coral reefs to polar seas and from estuaries to
the abyssal depths. Students also learn about management
and conservation of marine resources, a field that provides
the most employment opportunities for marine biologists.
The courses include field trips, tutorials and practical
sessions that introduce students to the experimental and
analytical methods used by professional marine biologists.
Visit www.biologicalsciences.uct.ac.za

function of genes at the molecular level. Genomics considers
the comparative study of genomes of living organisms. In
the Genetics major, emphasis is placed on understanding
the core biological processes of gene regulation and cell
signalling in plants, animals and microbes, integrating this
knowledge into our understanding of disease, development
and evolution. Visit www.mcb.uct.ac.za

GEOLOGY
Geology is the science of the Earth’s origin, structure and
composition. Geology is the basis for understanding the
Earth: how it evolved, what forces have shaped its oceans,
mountains, rivers and lakes, how and where its resources
are stored, how it first became a pleasant place for humans
to live and, more recently, how to manage and keep it so.
Geology probes research frontiers from mineral physics
to the origin of life, from the evolution of planets to the
climate changes affecting our present environment. It is
about mountain building, volcanoes, moving continents,
the death of the dinosaurs, diamonds and gold, soil erosion,
earthquakes, and atoms in a crystal.
Visit www.geology.uct.ac.za

MATHEMATICS
Mathematics is the science of structure, quantity,
change, space and the interactions between them.
While mathematical ideas can be inspired by everyday
observations, it is a characteristic feature of mathematical
truth that it is derived with logical reasoning on the basis
of sound definitions. Each day mathematicians all over the
world prove hundreds of new theorems and solve numerous
open problems. In this way they contribute to the systematic
body of knowledge that comprises modern mathematics.
Visit www.math.uct.ac.za

HUMAN ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY

MATHEMATICAL STATISTICS

The major in Human Anatomy & Physiology focuses on the
structure and function of the human body. The courses
for this major start at second year level, and cover and
integrate the traditional scientific disciplines of anatomy,
cell biology and physiology. The second year courses include
the introduction to human anatomy, basic structure and
function of cells, tissues, organs and systems, homeostasis,
the cardio-vascular, respiratory, digestive, excretory,
immune, reproductive and locomotor systems as well as the
regulatory endocrine and nervous systems, and an
introduction to ageing and disease. In third year
there is a strong emphasis on metabolism and
exercise physiology during the first semester and a
focus on neurophysiology in the second semester.
The Human Anatomy & Physiology major aims to
provide an understanding of how the human body
functions, how we learn new behaviour and how
we change our behaviour. A series of practical and
tutorial sessions are designed to develop technical
skills, using computers to record and analyse
cardiac, skeletal muscle and brain function, as well
as improving oral and writing skills. Visit
www.health.uct.ac.za/physiological-sciences

Mathematical Statistics is the study of the mathematical
principles, theory and methods underpinning the
interrogation and analysis of data. Statisticians contribute
to scientific enquiry by applying their mathematical
and statistical knowledge to the design of surveys and
experiments; the application of quantitative problem solving
methods and the analysis of data. Statisticians are employed
in many fields, including Biology, Finance, Economics, the
Engineering Industry, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology,

MARINE BIOLOGY
Marine biology is the study of life in the sea in all
its aspects. The world’s oceans cover 71% of the
surface of the planet, and have a mean depth of 3
800m, meaning that they make up well over 95%
of the ‘living space’ on earth. They are also the
least known of the environments on earth; indeed,
an estimated half of all marine species have yet
to be discovered! Cape Town is one of the best
locations in the world to study marine biology, as it
is situated at the confluence of three of the world’s
major oceans – the Atlantic, Indian and Southern
Oceans. Students taking this major will learn

67

principles in a range of contexts. Applications of the
principles of physics are everywhere: transistors, computers,
optical fibres, quantum computing. Physicists discovered
the structure of DNA and the genetic code, and invented
X-ray machines and the World Wide Web.
Visit www.phy.uct.ac.za

Marketing, Government, Education and Sport Science.
Statisticians are key players in the analytics environment,
using their data science skills to transform large amounts of
data into credible, usable information.
Visit www.stats.uct.ac.za

OCEAN & ATMOSPHERE SCIENCE

QUANTITATIVE BIOLOGY

This major deals with the physical attributes of the oceans
and covers the extent of the oceans, the physical, chemical
and biological properties of sea water, including salt and
heat budgets, sea surface fluxes and ocean climatology. The
principal force on the ocean is from the atmosphere and the
response by the sea is to produce tides and many types of
waves. Aspects of currents and water masses in the oceans
of the world and coastal oceanography around South Africa
provide the focus of regional oceanography. Located in
the subtropics, South Africa experiences both tropical and
mid-latitude influences on its weather, climate and oceanic
environments. The Ocean and Atmosphere Science major
deals with the circulation and properties of the global
ocean, their regional variations, and how the ocean interacts
with the atmosphere to produce the various marine and
atmospheric environments we experience.

This major is aimed at training biologists with quantitative
skills, preparing them for the emerging fields of ‘Data
Science’ and ‘Biological Modelling’, which are used to address
big scientific questions. The Quantitative Biology major is
packaged as an interdisciplinary stream, to allow students
among three major disciplinary fields (Biology, Statistics and
Mathematics) into the major, and for graduates taking this
major to be prepared to enter into the Data Science and
Quantitative Ecology fields.
Visit www.biologicalsciences.uct.ac.za

STATISTICS & DATA SCIENCE
The Statistics and Data Science major offers intensive,
mathematically and computationally rigorous studies
that aims to train graduates to solve complex real world
problems through the analysis and interpretation of data.
Students learn how to manipulate data, and how to use the
appropriate statistical methods to summarise and analyse
data. They are exposed to different computing platforms,
including the creation of databases, the extraction of data
from databases, and the programming skills to implement
the statistical analysis. Visit www.stats.uct.ac.za

A fundamental knowledge of Ocean and Atmosphere
Science is necessary for understanding the distributions
of the various marine and terrestrial ecosystems, climate
change and variability, severe weather such as tropical
cyclones and thunderstorms, as well as the properties of
the world oceans. The trans-disciplinary skills developed in
this major offers graduates opportunities to branch out into
many other areas of Earth System Science or to specialise
in a field of Oceanography, Atmospheric Science or Climate
up to a PhD level. UCT is ideally placed to offer such a
major given our proximity to the world’s strongest western
boundary current (the Agulhas), a cold upwelling current
system (the Benguela) and the highly dynamic Southern
Ocean. Visit www.sea.uct.ac.za

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
NSC results are the primary guide for admission to the BSc
degree. However, all applicants to the Science Faculty are
required to write the NBTs (Academic Literacy, Quantitative
Literacy and Mathematics).

PHYSICS

ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS HOLDING THE
NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE (NSC)

Physics is about understanding the nature of matter and
radiation in the language of mathematics, and as such is a
central fundamental discipline in science. A major in physics
teaches you how to apply your knowledge of fundamental

Besides taking the NSC results into account for admission,
other factors including, availability of places and educational
or social/home background, will be considered.

68

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

FACULTY POINTS SCORE (FPS)

PLACEMENT

The FPS (a score out of 800) is calculated as the sum of
the percentages achieved in the best six NSC subjects,
including English but excluding Life Orientation, and
doubling the percentages achieved in Mathematics and
Physical Science. Admission to the Faculty of Science
requires a minimum FPS of 550, but this does not
guarantee admission. Refer to the table below.

Admission to the Science Faculty will be directly onto
the regular, three-year degree programme. All students
will be required to write a set of formal class tests at
mid-term of the first semester and on the basis of
the results of these tests, together with NSC
and NBT results, selected students will be
counselled to convert to the four-year
Extended Degree Programme (EDP). The
EDP is structured such that students
entering the programme will receive
additional academic and general
support to improve the chances of
graduating in minimum time.

Note: most offers are made to applicants with points in
the guaranteed admission band.

Subject entrance requirements
•
•
•

Mathematics at 70% or above
Physical Science at 60% or above (refer to notes 2
and 3 below).
Where an applicant has not completed Physical
Science, doubling of the results for Information
Technology or Life Sciences may be applied, in
specific cases only (refer to notes 2 and 3 below).
ADMISSION
REQUIREMENTS

ELIGIBLE

Band A
FPS
All applicants

SA applicants in
targeted redress
categories

Guaranteed Admission
FPS of 660 or above
Mathematics 70% or above and
Physical Sciences 60% or above
(see Notes 2 & 3)
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL
to be written*

Band B
WPS

Admission Very Likely
WPS of 640 or above
Mathematics 70% or above and
Physical Sciences 60% or above
(see Notes 2 & 3)
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL
to be written*

Band C
FPS

Admission Possible
FPS of 550 or above
Mathematics 70% or above and
Physical Sciences 60% or above
(see Notes 2 & 3)
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL
to be written*

* The results of the NBTs are not taken into account for admission
to the Science Faculty but must be written as they are used for
placement into the Extended Degree Programme.
NOTE 1: Acceptance into the Science Faculty does not guarantee
acceptance into a chosen major because some majors (currently
Biochemistry, Computer Science (and associated majors),
Genetics, and Human Anatomy & Physiology) have limits on the
number of students that can be accommodated. Selection for these
is based on academic criteria which will be clearly communicated
to students during the first year of study. Students will be advised in
their first year to take courses which could lead to several majors.
NOTE 2: Where applicants have not completed Physical Science
or Information Technology in the secondary school-leaving
examinations, the choice of majors will be restricted to Archaeology
and Environmental & Geographical Science.

The EDP is run in association with the
Academic Development Programme
(ADP) and offers students who are
struggling the opportunity to establish
a sound educational foundation, with
an appropriate distribution of their
academic load over a four-year period.
The minimum time for a student on
the EDP to complete the BSc degree
is four years.

ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR
APPLICANTS WITH NON-SOUTH
AFRICAN SECONDARY
SCHOOL-LEAVING CERTIFICATES
For applicants in possession of or
writing other than South African
qualifications, offers of places may
only be made subject to the equivalent
bachelor’s exemption being obtained
from the South African Higher Education
(Matriculation) Board (refer to mb.usaf.
ac.za/exemption-process/ for further
information and online assessment and
application).
In addition, candidates must meet
the following minimum requirements;
meeting these requirements does not
guarantee admission which is limited by
available capacity:

APPLICANTS MUST TAKE AT LEAST:
•
•

•

NOTE 3: For the major combination of Computer Science and
Business Computing only the Physical Science requirement may be
replaced by Information Technology (only where Physical Science
was not taken).

69

English, Mathematics and Chemistry and/or
Physics (or Physical Science)
Chemistry is required for the following majors:
Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry, Genetics,
Geology, Human Anatomy & Physiology, Marine
Biology and Ocean & Atmosphere Science
Physics is required for the majors in Applied
Mathematics, Applied Statistics, Artificial
Intelligence, Astrophysics, Computer Engineering,
Geology, Mathematics, Mathematical Statistics,
Ocean & Atmosphere Science, Physics,
Quantitative Biology and Statistics & Data
Science.

•

•

English proficiency required for consideration for admission
to UCT.

Chemistry/Physics may be replaced by Computer
Science for majors in Computer Science and Business
Computing only.
Chemistry/Physics may be replaced by Geography for
the major in Environmental & Geographical Science

TRANSFERRING STUDENTS
Transferring applicants are required to write the National
Benchmark Test (NBT), submit certified copies of secondaryleaving and tertiary transcripts of results and a letter of
motivation in support of the application, providing details
of activities since leaving school and reasons for wanting
to transfer to the Faculty of Science. We have a limited
number of academic places in the Faculty of Science, so
offers will be made to the best candidates in this category.
Particular attention will be given to courses relevant to the
Science Faculty and to the proposed majors. It is unlikely
that students who have failed one or more courses will be
accepted and/or who have an overall percentage below 60
for subjects completed at tertiary level.

FACULTY POINTS SCORE (FPS) FOR NON NSC
EXAMINATIONS
Admission to the Faculty of Science requires an applicant
to have achieved a FPS of 34 points or above, based on the
five best subjects (including the required subjects), obtained
using the scoring table in the section of this prospectus
titled “Applying to UCT”.
Applicants writing other international authority examinations
will be assessed on their individual merits.
CAIE
English: C at IGCSE level
Mathematics: B at A/AS level
Physical Science (or Chemistry or Physics):
C at A/AS level

Bachelor
of Science

Transferring students are expected to have school-leaving
and NBT results competitive with the current applicant pool
and must have:
a) passed all first-year courses in their first year at another
institution, and bring with them at least 108 credits,
including a mathematics course, that earn “credit and
exemption” at the University of Cape Town;
b) not been academically excluded by another tertiary
institution; and
c) not been registered at another tertiary institution for
more than two years;

Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC)
English: C at Ordinary Level
Mathematics: 70% (or level 1 Higher level)
Physical Science (or Chemistry or Physics): 60%
(or level 1 Higher level)
International Baccalaureate
English: Grade 5 at SL
Mathematics Analysis & Approaches: Grade 5 at HL
or Grade 6 at SL
(Maths Applications and interpretation /Maths
Studies is not accepted)
Physical Science (or Chemistry or Physics):
Grade 5 at HL or Grade 6 SL

All students who transfer from other Universities must
register for a minimum of two years for the BSc degree,
and complete all the senior courses of their majors, at the
University of Cape Town. They must be able to complete the
degree in a maximum of four years, which includes the time
registered at the current/previous university.

NOTE: Due to capacity constraints offers are unlikely to be
made to applicants who only meet the minimum admission
requirements.

Note: Transferring of credits

•

ENGLISH PROFICIENCY
•

All international students for whom English is not a first/
home language or have not passed English at Grade 12, ASlevel, IGCSE level or equivalent, must provide proof of English
language proficiency.
Applicants are required to achieve one of the following:
•
A score of at least 51% for the Academic Literacy (AL)
component of the National Benchmark Tests (NBTs)
•
A pass in the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign
Language) with a score of at least 570 on the paperbased test, or 230 on the computer-based test; or 88
on the internet-based test
•
An overall band score of 7.0 (with no individual element
of the test scoring below 6.0) on the International
English Language Testing System (IELTS)
•
A score of 64 on the Pearson PTE Academic test.

•
•

The tests must be taken at your own expense, before
submitting an application. These are the minimum levels of

70

The University of Cape Town may give credit for, and/or
exemption from, a maximum of 180 credits completed
elsewhere if these courses are recognised by the
University of Cape Town.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to obtain, from the
relevant UCT departments, signed approval of credit
and exemption for the courses they wish to transfer,
before their applications will be considered.
Senior major courses may not be transferred for credit
or exemption.
Tertiary courses required for matriculation exemption
purposes will not be credited.

STUDENT
HOUSING
Staying in residence is an extension of your university
education, and you can benefit from a range of facilities
and services including PC labs, network connections,
social and sporting activities.

Graça Machel Hall, on the Lower campus, is located near to
Baxter and Tugwell Halls, close to the university swimming
pool, gym and squash courts and is within walking
distance of Rondebosch shopping area. The residence
can accommodate 382 students, with first-year students
sharing double rooms. Most returning and senior students
are allocated single rooms.

ON-CAMPUS ACCOMMODATION
UCT has a three-tier residence system that provides
different services, governance and management in each
tier. The policy and criteria for admission to UCT student
housing assume that a new student will initially enter a
first-tier (catering) residence and subsequently move to
a second-tier (senior catering or self-catering) residence
or into third-tier (semi-autonomous self-catering)
accommodation. This section gives some information on
each of these tiers, and the residence halls, flats or houses
within each tier.

Tugwell Hall, on the Lower Campus, is a 1970s eleven-storey
residence. It can accommodate 406 students and is
located near UCT’s swimming pool, gym and squash courts.
First-year students share partitioned, double rooms. Most
returning students are accommodated in single rooms. The
Rondebosch shopping area is five minutes’ walk away.

FIRST-TIER RESIDENCES FOR MEN
Carinus is situated behind Groote Schuur Hospital,
and can accommodate 301 students in mainly single
rooms. Students are able to travel by shuttle between
the residence and campuses. College House was the first
men’s residence in Southern Africa. The present building
is situated on the Lower Campus in Main Road, Rosebank
and can accommodate 119 students in single and double
rooms. Meals are taken at Leo Marquard Hall next door.

FIRST-TIER ACCOMMODATION
First-tier residences provide accommodation for
undergraduate students, who are usually under the age
of 21. These residences provide students with up to three
meals a day in a dining hall.

FIRST-TIER RESIDENCES FOR WOMEN

Kilindini, on the Lower Campus, can accommodate 32
students in single rooms. It is located on Main Road,
Rosebank, close to College House, and about five minutes’
walk from Mowbray shopping area. Kilindini students take
their meals at Tugwell Hall.

Baxter Hall, on the Lower Campus, is located near UCT’s
swimming pool, gym and squash courts. The Rondebosch
shopping area is five minutes’ walk away. Baxter Hall
can accommodate 233 students in mainly single rooms
arranged in “flats” of three to six rooms. Each flat shares a
bathroom.

Kopano, on the Middle Campus, is located close to a variety
of sports facilities including an all-weather soccer field,
UCT’s cricket oval, swimming pool, gym and squash courts.
It has single rooms for 366 students.

Fuller Hall, on the Upper Campus, is situated close to the
main library, near Sarah Baartman Hall and is near Upper
Campus Residence. All Upper and Middle Campus venues
are within walking distance.

Leo Marquard Hall, on the Lower Campus, is an eleven-

71

accommodate 146 students. About half the residents share
rooms. Students take their meals at Avenue Road residence
dining hall. The residence is situated on the periphery of
the Main Campus, two shuttle-stops away from the lecture
halls. The hockey field lies adjacent to the residence and
there is access to a swimming pool in Forest Hill. Flats are
either for male or female students. These are all served by
the free shuttle bus.

storey residence. It is located near UCT’s swimming pool, gym
and squash courts. This 1970s residence can accommodate
419 students. First year students share partitioned double
rooms. Most returning students are accommodated in
single rooms.
Upper Campus Residence is situated on the Upper Campus,
near to Fuller Hall. It can accommodate 235 students, mostly
in single rooms and a small number in inter-leading rooms.
It provides easy access to the Library, Students’ Union and
all the departments based on the Upper Campus. Students
take their meals in Fuller Hall.

CRITERIA FOR ADMISSION TO FIRST-TIER
ACCOMMODATION
Meeting some admission criteria may guarantee you an offer
of residence, while meeting others may make you eligible
for an offer. The minimum criteria for admission to student
accommodation is that you must have:
a. applied for student housing in your UCT application, or
amended your application to include an application for
student housing no later than 31 July 2025;
b. been made an offer (conditional or firm) of admission, at
any time, for the 2026 academic year.

University House can accommodate 84 students. There are
six residential buildings and meals are taken in the Avenue
Road residence dining hall. Situated off Rhodes Avenue,
the residence is within easy walking distance of the Upper
Campus and Mowbray shopping area.

FIRST-TIER RESIDENCES FOR BOTH WOMEN & MEN
Avenue Road Residence is a new state of the art residence
which has been awarded “Green status”. It can accommodate
550 students in single and double rooms. Situated off
Rhodes Avenue, the residence is within easy walking distance
of the Upper Campus and Mowbray shopping area.

Please visit
uct.ac.za/dsa/student-housing-applying-residence/
new-applications for more information about criteria for
admission to first-tier student accommodation.

Glendower Residence (Glenres) can accommodate 138
residents. It is situated on the Lower Campus in Main Road,
Rosebank, less than five minutes’ walk from the Mowbray
shopping area. Students take their meals at Tugwell Hall.
There are separate facilities for male and female students.
Rochester House is a purpose-built residence situated just
north of Groote Schuur Hospital and can accommodate 795
female and male students in single rooms. It has excellent
on-site facilities, including a swimming pool, computer lab
and 24-hour security.

SECOND-TIER ACCOMMODATION
Second tier accommodation is a largely self-catering sector,
with some catering options, generally for more senior
undergraduate and postgraduate students. All rooms in
Second Tier residences are single. Most of the Second Tier
residences are 2–4 bedroom flats.

SECOND-TIER CATERING
Groote Schuur Residence is a mixed-gender residence and
can accommodate 64 students, with men and women on
separate floors. During term times, breakfast and supper

Varietas in Matopo Road, off Rhodes Avenue, can

72

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

wastepaper bin, curtains and notice board. No sheets, blankets,
pillows or towels are provided. Catering residences prepare
three meals per day in a dining hall. Students choose a meal
plan. Students are expected to provide and launder their own
bed linen, and clean their own rooms. Vacuum cleaners and
other cleaning materials are provided. No cooking is permitted
in bedrooms. Students in self-catering accommodation have
access to a fridge and stove, but need their own cooking
utensils and crockery.

are served at the residence and lunch at Leo Marquard Hall.
Medical Residence can accommodate 103 male and female
students who are usually clinical year medical students.

SECOND-TIER SELF-CATERING
Groote Schuur Flats can accommodate 64 students in Main
Road, Rondebosch, is close to supermarkets and other shops
and within easy walking distance of the Upper Campus.
Liesbeeck Gardens can accommodate 434 students in
mainly two- and three-bedroom flats. Situated on Liesbeeck
Parkway, Mowbray. A free shuttle service operates on
weekdays and weekends.

SHARING A ROOM IN RESIDENCE
Half of all first-year students in catering residences are
accommodated in double rooms. It may be possible for you
to share a room with a friend who has been accepted into
the same residence. The warden of your allocated residence
should be informed in advance of your arrival. If you or your
roommate decides that you would prefer to share a room with
someone else in the same residence, talk to your warden or
sub-warden, who will, where possible, make arrangements
suitable to all. Normally room changes are only allowed in
March to allow for settling in and to help avoid confusion in
the room allocation process.

The Woolsack is on Middle Campus and can accommodate
206 male and female students. Accommodation is
arranged in pavilions or courts with an average of 25
students in each.
Forest Hill is a large complex off Main Road, Mowbray.
It is made up of five separate blocks of flats which can
accommodate 822 students.

UCT SHUTTLE SERVICE

Obz Square is both a second and third tier residence, it is
situated on the Main Road, Observatory, it is the latest
addition to UCT residence system and it can accommodate
880 senior and postgraduate students in en-suite rooms.
Eight to ten students share a kitchen. The complex is close
to most shops and the Faculty of Health Sciences.

The UCT shuttle service is for the sole use of UCT staff and
students. A scheduled service is available 7 days a week, during
term times and vacation, and includes a late-night service. It
operates between all campuses, most residences, and local
public transport terminals, so you can connect from train and
bus or park ‘n ride. The UCT shuttle service is free to all UCT
students. Just show your valid student card when getting
on. Timetables are available from the Traffic Office, Visitors
Reception and Information Centre or on the UCT website via
the Staff and Student Portal. For more information contact
the Transport Administrator at - Tel: +27 (0)21 685 7135

THIRD-TIER ACCOMMODATION
Third-tier residences provide accommodation for postgraduate students. They also provide limited family
accommodation for postgraduate students.

LIVING IN RESIDENCE
All student rooms in residences, houses and flats are equipped
with basic furniture – a bed, cupboard, desk, chair, bookcase,

73

TRANSFERRING FROM ONE RESIDENCE TO
ANOTHER DURING THE ACADEMIC YEAR
Residence transfers/swops will only be considered if
it is a request from a catering or self-catering option
to the other, motivation on medical grounds and
seeking a cheaper room rate. These requests require
the approval from the wardens concerned.

OFF-CAMPUS ACCOMMODATION
Many students in their second or subsequent years
of study stay in leased or private accommodation
close to UCT. Our Off Campus Student
Accommodation Services advertises vacancies in
private accommodation.
Details of vacancies can be obtained at:
uct.ac.za/dsa/student-housing-campus-studentaccommodation-services-ocsas/about-ocsas or at
the Off Campus Student Accommodation Services
- Tel: +27 (0)21 650 4934.

APPLYING FOR STUDENT HOUSING
If you wish to be considered for a place in student
housing, you must apply when submitting an online
application, or a paper application. You must apply
by 31 July 2025. If you have a disability, please email
disabilityservice@uct.ac.za to inform them about
your application so that they can assist in securing a
room best suitable to your needs.
If your conditional offer is not confirmed by a faculty
(ie. if you do not meet the conditions of your offer),
your student housing application is automatically
cancelled.

ALLOCATION TO SPECIFIC RESIDENCES, HOUSES
OR FLATS
All offers of student housing places will be made
in terms of the student housing admissions and
residence allocation policy. Please consult the
Student Housing webpage on the UCT website for
details of the 2022- 2027 allocation policy, visit:
www.uct.ac.za/sites/default/files/content_
migration/uct_ac_za/39/files/RES_Policy_Student_
Housing_Admission_2022-2027.pdf

74

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

SPORTS, STUDENT
SOCIETIES &
STUDENT
GOVERNANCE
SPORT & RECREATION

addition, UCT owns a mountain near Ceres, a L26 Keelboat,
sailing dinghies, and a wakeboard boat.

UCT provides many opportunities for you to participate
in sports or physical recreation of your choice. Traditional
sports are all well catered for, but you also have the option
of exciting individual pursuits such as sailing, water skiing
and scuba diving.

SPORTS SCHOLARSHIPS & BURSARIES
With an excellent record in a wide variety of sports, UCT is
keen to continue attracting top sports people to the campus.
If you have played provincial or national representative sport
at any level, you could be eligible for a Sporting Scholarship
to assist in financing your studies at UCT. Eligible applicants
need to apply to the Sports & Recreation Department to be
considered for these awards. For information and application
forms, contact sport@uct.ac.za

Our Sport & Recreation Department provides for all levels of
sport from social programmes through to high performance
sport. UCT has a proud record of achievement both in
the local Western Province leagues and at the national
Student Tournaments. Year after year, UCT has produced a
number of sports people who achieve the highest honour of
representing South Africa. For more information, visit www.
dsa.uct.ac.za/student-development/sport-clubs/overview

STUDENT SOCIETIES
At UCT a number of societies cater for academic, faith,
special interests, political and cultural.

Sports development and transformation are taken very
seriously at UCT. Our students are actively engaged in
promoting sport in the local communities and within their
clubs on campus. Every club welcomes new members from
novices to the more experienced athletes, and the clubs are
equipped to deal with the needs of each individual. Most
clubs engage the services of top-level coaches, many of
whom coach at provincial level.

These are outside of the formal academic programme and
are open to all registered students. Societies’ activities are
directed by students, and there are many opportunities
to get involved at an organisational level. Through such
activities you will develop valuable skills in leadership and
organisation. Listed on page 77 are societies at UCT. Visit
uct.ac.za/dsa/student-development-student-societiesorganisations/overview

In order to leave no one behind, we have ensured that our
sport program is inclusive to persons with disabilities by
welcoming the UCT ParaSports Society to the list of societies
available at UCT. UCT ParaSports hosts a variety of inclusive
sports such as wheelchair rugby, blind soccer and goal ball.
For more Information, email uctparasports@gmail.com

STUDENTS’ REPRESENTATIVE COUNCIL
The Students’ Representative Council (SRC) is a statutory
structure consisting of a minimum of 15 members who are
elected annually in a general UCT-wide election. The SRC
represents the interests of students at UCT, and does this
through active participation in UCT committees as well as
through a range of programmes and projects.

Sports facilities include an artificial hockey field, an indoor
sports complex, and excellent tennis, squash, soccer, rugby,
cricket and fitness centre facilities. Our rowing club is one
of the better equipped university clubs in South Africa. In

As the highest student governance decision-making
structure, the SRC also co-ordinates the work of student
structures such as, clubs, societies, student faculty councils,

75

Green Campus Initiative (GCI) focusses on environmental
sustainability activities on campus and beyond. GCI provides
workshops, sustainability programmes looking at waste
management, recycling and transport amongst others. To
learn more about GCI, visit www.facebook.com/uct.gci

residence committees, development agencies and student
organisations. Given the wide choice of student clubs,
societies, and other governance structures, there is literally
something to capture the interest of everyone. In this regard
you will have a host of opportunities to continue activities
you already have an interest in, or to get involved in something
new. With several hundred students joining societies each
year, you are assured of meeting other students with similar
interests. For more information contact the DSA Helpdesk on
Level 4, Steve Biko Students Union or +27 (0)21 650 3541. For
more information, visit www.src.uct.ac.za

UCT RADIO is a campus-community station staffed by
fellow students and teaching a wide range of broadcasting
and media skills. Our focus is news, music and entertainment
based on UCT campus culture. If you’d like to know more
visit us at www.radio.uct.ac.za or check out our social media
pages on FB, Twitter and IG.

DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
Varsity is the official student-run news source at UCT.
Established in 1942, Varsity has grown into a creative and
multimedia developmental agency. Producing new content
every Tuesday, the publication alternates between its print
newspaper and website. The online presence spans various
social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram
and YouTube. Read Varsity online: varsitynewspaper.co.za

UCT RAG (Remember and Give) is the student fundraising
sector of SHAWCO. RAG volunteers organise a number of
student and corporate fundraising events throughout the
year, with all the proceeds going to SHAWCO. To learn more
about RAG, visit www.rag.uct.ac.za
Ubunye is a student run development agency operating on
campus as an SRC-recognised body, providing a range of
opportunities for student social engagement.

76

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

CLUBS & SOCIETIES AT UCT
Apostolic Faith Church of Portland Oregon
Abantu Zambian Society
ACTS Kolbe Catholic Society
African Students for Liberty
Altum Sonatur
Amnesty International
Art of Living – Hartha Yoga Society
Asian Students Association
Association of Black Securities and Investment
Professionals
Association of Built Environment Student
Association of SA Black Actuaries
Ballroom Dancing
Believers Loveworld
Bhakti Yoga Society
Biological Society
Biomimicry Society
Birding UCT
Black Law Students’ Forum
Black Lawyer’s Association
Black Management Forum
Businesswomen’s Association Student Chapter
Cape Legion of Adventurers and War Gamers
Cape Town Globalist
Cardiac Society
Chabad UCT
Christian Medical Fellowship
Christian Revival Church
Christians on Campus
Church On Main
Cortex Club
Crypto currency
Debating Union
Deeper Life Campus Fellowship
Democratic Alliance Students’ Organisation
DJ’s Production Society
DR Congo
East African Students Society
Economic Freedom Fighters Student Command
EDU Student Organisation
Effective Altruism
Enactus
Engineers Without Borders
Fashion Society

Film Society
Gender & Sex Project
Genshiken
Ghana Society
Golden Future Project
Grace Bible Church
Green Campus Initiative
Habitat for Humanity
Hellenic Students’ Association
Her Campus Initiative
Hillsong Church
Hindu Students’ Society
Hip Hop Club
His People
Human Upliftment Project
Ikey Ability
InkuluFreeHeid
Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers
Internal medicine
Investment Society
Jubilee Society
Korean Student Association
Leanin
Lesotho Students’ Association
Malawi Students Society
Moot Society
Muslim Students’ Association
Muslim Youth Movement
Namibian Students’ Organization
Nazareth Tertiary Student’s Association
Nigerian Students’ Society
Organisational Psychology Students’ Society
Paediatrics society
Palestine Solidarity Forum
Pan Africanist Student Movement of Azania
Photographic Society
Poetry
Preclinical society
Psychology Society
RAG
Rainbow Organisation
RAPHA Church
REACH Society
Redeemed Christian Fellowship

Rural Support Network
Seventh Day Adventist Movement
SHAWCO Education
SHAWCO Health
Shofar Church
South African Medical Students’ Association
South African students’ congress
South African Union of Jewish Students
Space and Astronomy Association
Student Christian Fellowship
Student Psychiatry society
Student YMCA
Students for a Free Tibet UCT
Students for Law and Social Justice
Students for Life
Surgical Society
Swazi Students Society
TEDxUCT
The Collective
The Twelve Apostle Church in Christ
Thinking Club
Trees of Life Multiracial Church
Tsonga society
Ubunye
UCT African Choral
UCT Baha’i Society
UCT Choir
UCT Consulting Club
UCT Developers’ Society
UCT Entrepreneur’s Society
UCT Marketing Association
UCT Mathematics society
UCT Radio
United Nations Association
of South Africa Vegilicious
We Are Animals
Wine and Cultural Society
Winners Camp Fellowship
Women in computer Science
Women in Property Network
World Mission Society
(Church of God )
Zimbabwe Society
Zion Christian Students’ Fellowship

SPORTS ON OFFER
Aikido
Archery
Athletics
Badminton
Basketball
Canoeing
Capoeira
Chess
Cricket

Fitness centre
Cycling
Fencing
Golf
Gymnastics
Hockey
Ju jitsu
Karate
Kickboxing

Mountain & ski
Netball
Rowing
Rugby
Soccer
Squash
Supa pool
Surfing
Table tennis

77

Taekwondo
Tennis
Tai chi
Ultimate frisbee
Underwater hockey
Volleyball
Water polo
Water-skiing
Yachting

NB : ALL COPY IS LAST YEARS - ONLY ALL YEARS HAVE BEEN CHANGE UP BY 1 YEARS.
PAGES NO NEED TO ALL BE CHANGE STILL

INTERNATIONAL
STUDENTS

There are various ways that you can study as an international
student at UCT. The International Office supports international
students and researchers by issuing letters in support of visa
applications, advising on immigration-related requirements, and
advocating for students’ visa challenges.
Students are informed about international tuition and housing
fees, the costs of living in Cape Town and support services
available to them. Before you start your Semester Study Abroad
(SSA) or full-degree programme, the International Office will
provide comprehensive information and a dedicated orientation
programme to welcome you to UCT. Queries about academic
qualifications and specific course requirements should be
directed to the relevant faculty office.

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

SEMESTER STUDY ABROAD EXCHANGE (SSA) STUDENTS

FULL-DEGREE INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS

UCT offers a vibrant study abroad programme for students
wanting to spend one or two semesters experiencing life
in Cape Town while completing a degree elsewhere. SSA
students are taught alongside other UCT students and are
fully integrated into academic and social life at UCT.

UCT considers suitably qualified international applicants who
wish to study for a full undergraduate degree programme.

SADC (STUDENTS CITIZENS OF SADC COUNTRIES)
The Southern African Development Community countries
are: Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of Congo,
Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique,
Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania,
Zambia and Zimbabwe. The minimum initial fee payment
for academic and residence fees plus the non-refundable
Administrative Fee must be paid prior to registration or
entering student accommodation. No international levy
(International Term Fee) will be charged.

To be accepted into the SSA programme, you should be
a current student of a higher education institute outside
South Africa, be of good academic standing at your
home university, have a grade point average of 65% in
your current studies (this is 3.0 for academic systems
using the 4.0 scale or an upper range ‘B’ on the ECTS
scale), have completed two semesters towards your
degree and have met UCT’s English language admission
requirements (see page 17).

NON-SADC STUDENTS
As an international student (non-SADC) coming to UCT, you
will be charged an international levy, called the International
Term Fee (per annum), and the non-refundable full tuition
fee comprise of the individual fee for each course taken
and the non-refundable administrative fee. Administrative
Fee, in addition to the individual fees for all courses taken.
The International Term Fee, the Administrative Fee plus the
individual course fees must be paid prior to registration.

The programme offers a wide range of courses and
students can select from subjects established in
the Faculties of Commerce, Engineering & the Built
Environment, Humanities, Law and Science.
Applications for course admission are assessed by
academic selectors in the relevant discipline who will pay
particular attention to your academic record and courses
already taken towards your home university degree.

MATRICULATION EXEMPTION
If you wish to study at UCT and you are writing or have
written a foreign secondary school-leaving examination, you
will need to obtain a matriculation exemption certificate
from the Matriculation Board. Before making you an offer,
the faculty will ensure that you are eligible for matriculation
exemption. Once you have been registered but before the
end of your first year, you will need to apply through your
faculty office to the Matriculation Board for a certificate
of exemption. https://uct.ac.za/sites/default/files/media/
documents/2025-initial-fee-payments-for-internationalstudents.pdf

SSA students pay a semester package fee covering tuition,
orientation activities and membership of 3 student clubs
and societies. Students receive comprehensive prearrival information and assistance in finding suitable
accommodation close to campus.
Students on the programme have an opportunity to join
student societies and clubs, and to participate in the
community service and volunteering programmes run by
these student-led organisations.

To apply take the prescribed form, your original school
leaving certificate (the faculty will make a certified copy for
the Matriculation Board) and the prescribed fee (made out
to the Matriculation Board) to the faculty office who will
submit your application to the Matriculation Board.Details of
fees payable and the form are available on the Matriculation
Board website at mb.usaf.ac.za. The onus remains on you, as
a student, to check that the faculty office has received your
certificate from the Matriculation Board. Enquiries about
certificates of exemption should be addressed to the:
Universities South Africa,
P O Box 27392, Sunnyside, Pretoria, 0132
Tel: +27 (0)10 591 4401/2 Fax: +27 (0)86 680 5727
Website: mb.usaf.ac.za

APPLICATION DEADLINES:
For First Semester (February – June):
31 October prior to the year of study.
For Second Semester (July – November):
30 April of the year of study
Apply online at applyonline.uct.ac.za
It can take up to 8 to 12 weeks to obtain a South
African study visa, early applications are encouraged.
For further information, contact the:

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS WITH FOREIGN SECONDARY SCHOOL-LEAVING EXAMINATIONS
To be considered for admission, applicants must qualify for a
matriculation exemption from the Matriculation Board, and
must meet certain minimum faculty entry requirements.
Some of the more common foreign secondary schoolleaving examinations submitted by international applicants
include CAIE, NSSC and ZIMSEC examinations, the

The International Office
Tel:
+27 (0)21 650 2822
Email: ssa@uct.ac.za
Website: https://studyabroad.uct.ac.za

79

International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma, and the Advanced
International Certificate of Education (AICE). Applicants who
have written only the IGCSE level or equivalent examination,
and who are not writing any other secondary school-leaving
examination, are not eligible for admission to UCT. If you are
writing a foreign secondary school-leaving qualification, your
application to UCT will be assessed individually.

citizen or do not have permanent residence, you are required
to obtain a study visa to enter the Republic of South Africa
for the purpose of attending UCT. It is important that your
visa is endorsed specifically for study at UCT.
If you hold refugee or asylum seeker status issued by the
South African Government you are exempt from needing
a study visa to attend UCT, however, you are required to
produce a valid South African Government issued refugee or
asylum seeker permit. The offer of a study place by UCT does
not bind the Department of Home Affairs in any way to allow
you to study in South Africa, nor does it remove the need
for you to obtain permission to enter the country. If you are
offered a study place, please apply immediately for a study
visa. You can apply for a study visa with a conditional study
place offer or a firm study place offer. Your application must
be made to the nearest South African Embassy, Consulate
or High Commission in your home country. This procedure
could take from 8 to 12 weeks or longer to be processed, so
apply without delay.

ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS
English is used both for teaching and for examinations at
UCT. All applicants must show evidence of proficiency in
English and must submit evidence of this as part of their
application to study at UCT. The English Language admission
requirements can be found on page 17.

FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
UCT does not offer bursaries/scholarships to international
undergraduate applicants. American citizens undertaking
full degree studies may apply for US Federal Aid (Direct
Loans) - For more information iapo-finance@uct.ac.za. UCT
is also an accredited institution for Canadian Federal Aid,
but application is made directly to https://www.canada.ca/
en/services/benefits/education/student-aid.html

Please review the website for the South African Embassy/
Mission or Consular Office for the country where the
application will be made regarding ALL visa application
requirements and operations.

The MasterCard Foundation Scholars Program is available to
citizens of an African country. Please refer to The Mastercard
Foundation Scholars Program at the UCT website for
information on how to apply: www.mcfsp.uct.ac.za
E-mail: 		 info_mcfsp@uct.ac.za
Tel:		 +27 (0) 21 650 2822

You should await the outcome of your application before
making any travel arrangements to South Africa. If you have
studied at another South African University or attended
high school in South Africa, then your study visa needs to
be changed for studies at UCT. It is very important that your
study visa is valid for studies at UCT. Please note that you
may NOT take up studies at UCT with a study visa issued
for another institution. The onus is on you to make sure that

STUDY VISAS
In terms of the Immigration Act No. 13 of 2002, if you are
resident outside of South Africa and are not a South African

80

|

•

your study visa is valid for the duration of your studies at
UCT. You are advised to apply for a change in visa conditions
so that your study visa is endorsed for UCT.

•
The Department of Home Affairs has officially outsourced
the submission of applications to a company called Visa
Facilitation Services (VFS). Applications accepted for
processing by the relevant VFS office are then forwarded
to the Department of Home Affairs for adjudication. Once
the application has been finalised, the Department of Home
Affairs will issue an outcome to the VFS office where the
application was submitted. Application forms are completed
online but submitted in hardcopy and in person at the VFS
Office. You can apply for a study visa renewal or change in
visa conditions through VFS services.

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

Medical aid cover from a medical aid scheme registered
in South Africa and valid for the full duration of your
Study visa
Proof that you have paid the minimum initial academic
fee (and residence fee where applicable)

International students who also hold SADC citizenship
status or South African permanent residence are
not eligible for fee adjustments if the relevant SADC
documents (certified and verified) are not submitted
before 31 July 2025.

CERTIFICATION & COMMISSIONERS OF OATH
To pre-register we will require that all immigration
documentation, including passport personal details page,
study visa (or other permit type) is certified and/or notarised
by a Commissioner of Oaths or Notary. The certified copy
must not be older than 6-months and must include the date,
name and signature of the Commissioner of Oaths or Notary.
If you are residing in another country and you are unable to
certify your documents prior to departure for South Africa,
kindly note that certification services are available at the
International Office.

Internationals who hold a valid Refugee, Asylum Seeker or
a Permanent Residence Permit for South Africa will not be
required to apply for a study visa. We will accept certified
copies of either of these documents for pre-registration.

PRE-REGISTRATION FOR IMMIGRATION AND FEES
CLEARANCE

For more information, contact:
The International Office
Tel: 		 +27 (0)21 650 2822
Email:
iapo@uct.ac.za
Website: www. international.uct.ac.za/

Pre-registration is the administrative process for verifying
you have the required immigration documents to study in
South Africa and that your academic fees have cleared into
the UCT bank account before registration.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS must complete immigration
and fees clearance before proceeding to academic
registration. You will need the following documents:
•
Certified copy of valid passport personal details page
•
Certified copy of study visa endorsed for study at UCT

81

TUITION FEES & RESIDENCE COSTS
UCT publishes a booklet, which is updated every year, giving
the fee for each academic course and accommodation in
different types of student housing. UCT uses a course-based
fee structure. The fee booklet, together with the relevant
Faculty handbook, will enable students to calculate the cost
of their academic studies at UCT.

catering residences or R27 500 for self-catering. For SADC
applicants an international administrative fee of R5 300 was
payable prior to registration.

The Faculty handbook will indicate the courses that can be
taken in pursuing a programme of study and the relevant
course code. Use this code to look up the all-inclusive cost of
the course in the fee booklet. The sum of these costs will give
you the total cost for the set of chosen courses.

Bachelor of Commerce and
Bachelor of Business Science

R76 430 - R103 890
R51 690 - R103 890

Bachelor of Business Science Actuarial
Science

R103 890

Bachelor of Architectural Studies

R86 660

There are no levies. Faculty handbook information is
available on the UCT website: www.uct.ac.za
You can obtain a Fees booklet at
uct.ac.za/students/fees-funding-fees/fees-handbook

Bachelor of Science (Construction Studies)

R89 350

Bachelor of Science (Property Studies)

R87 220

Bachelor of Science (Geomatics)

R71 120

Bachelor of Science (Engineering)

R79 460 - R89 350

TUITION FEES

Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of
Surgery (MBChB)

R108 800

Bachelor of Science (Audiology)

R91 770

Bachelor of Science (Speech-Language
Pathology)

R92 570

Bachelor of Science (Occupational
Therapy)

R81 770

Bachelor of Science (Physiotherapy)

R80 240

Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Social
Science

R75 500

Bachelor of Arts (Fine Art)

R84 200

Bachelor of Music

R71 700 - R74 900

Bachelor of Arts (Theatre and
Performance)

R81 600

Bachelor of Laws (LLB)

R76 810

Bachelor of Science

R83 000

For more information, please contact the Fees Office or visit
the UCT website.

The table below lists fees in 2025 for a “typical” first year
undergraduate degree programme for South African applicants.
It will give you an idea of what the fees are likely to be in 2026.
Actual 2026 fees will be published on UCT’s website towards
the end of 2025.

PAYMENT OF FEES
Full details of tuition and accommodation fees are sent
to students before registration, as well as dates by when
payment must be made. A variety of payment methods
are available. An initial payment for both tuition fees and
student accommodation must be made before registration.
So, for example, for 2025 the first payment was due by Friday,
07 February 2025 and the balance of the fees by 31 July 2025.
For tuition costs the initial payment in 2025 was R31 000
(or the full fee, where the full fee was less than R32 500). For
residence costs, the initial payment in 2025 was R41 500 for

2025 RESIDENCE COSTS
Fees for 2026 for UCT’s residences, houses and flats
will be determined in November 2025. About 40% of
the total fee for 2025 must be paid to UCT before the
start of the academic year. The balance must be paid
by the end of June 2025.
The average charge for a single room in a first-tier
residence is R84 690 in 2025. If the meal option of
3 meals each day is added, the charge is R120 580.
Students have a choice of four meal options. The cost
of the meal option is not included in the residence
fee. The chosen meal option must be added to the
residence fee.
MEAL OPTIONS AT 2025 PRICES ARE:
Add the cost of your selected

MEAL OPTION 1 (BLD): 3 MEALS PER DAY FOR SEVEN DAYS PER WEEK
First Tier

R35 890

Groote Schuur and Forest Hill G

R38 880

Health Sciences

R42 940

MEAL OPTION 2 (LAD): LUNCH AND DINNER SEVEN DAYS PER WEEK
First Tier

R26 810

Groote Schuur and Forest Hill G

R29 270

Health Sciences

R32 260

MEAL OPTION 3 (BAD): BREAKFAST AND DINNER SEVEN DAYS PER WEEK
First Tier

R24 140

Groote Schuur and Forest Hill G

R26 380

Health Sciences

R29 050

MEAL OPTION 4 (MOW): 3 MEALS PER DAY, WEEK DAYS ONLY
First Tier

R26 700

Groote Schuur and Forest Hill G

R28 200

Health Sciences

R31 300

82

FUNDING
YOUR
STUDIES

Most prospective students have concerns about funding. Coming to UCT may be
your first experience away from home, and it is natural to wonder how you will
manage. We understand your financial concerns and in this section we provide some
information on sources of funding and guidelines on how to finance your studies.
A student, you will find that careful financial planning and management is essential.
This is even more important if you are meeting the cost of studying yourself, or if
you are studying away from home. When your personal expenses, accommodation
and travel are included, a single year at UCT can cost over R126 000. A significant
number of students fund their studies through a combination of scholarships,
bursaries (either administered by UCT or by organisations outside UCT), loans, help
from parents, sponsorship by companies, and through part-time and vacation work.

There are many kinds of financial support available to South
African students: entrance scholarships; sports scholarships;
bursaries, loans and financial assistance packages. We
encourage you to explore all of these possibilities. For instance,
although you may obtain an entrance or sports scholarship
from UCT, you can still apply for other funding.

APPLYING FOR FINANCIAL AID
As of 1 August 2016, the National Student Financial Aid
Scheme (NSFAS) opened its student-centred application
model. First-time applications for financial aid, as well as
funding renewal for those students who are already recipients
of NSFAS funding, will be handled centrally via NSFAS.
Although applicants may have applied to multiple institutions
for admission to study, only one financial aid application
directly to NSFAS will be required. All students and learners
who need financial assistance should apply to NSFAS via the
latter’s online application system.
It is important to check the NSFAS website and their social
media for details of when applications open and close for
submission of applications. Ensure that your application is
submitted before the closing date.
If you think you may need to be assisted financially, our advice
is to submit a completed financial aid application to NSFAS,
since late applications will not be accepted. In addition, you
can apply to other sponsors and funders. You should not wait
for the outcome of one bursary application before applying
for another. Application closing dates are strictly adhered to
by all funders. Funders, like NSFAS, close their applications
for funding before you are likely to receive information from
a University on your academic application. It is vital that you
apply for funding even if you don’t have an academic offer yet.
Persons with disabilities can apply for the NSFAS Disability
Grant which has a higher income cap as it takes into
consideration (when applicable) the possible costs of
assistive devices, human support and medical practitioners.
When applying for NSFAS on the website, select the disability
box and remember to have the Annexure A form filled in and
stamped by your medical practitioner. Scan and upload
your completed Annexure A form along with your medical
documents to be considered for the grant.

SCHOLARSHIPS FOR SCHOOL-LEAVERS
Each year, UCT allocates over R8 million as entrance
scholarships to school-leavers who are coming to study at
UCT for the first time. South African citizens and permanent
residents are eligible for these awards. The awards range from
R20 000 to R100 000. No application for a UCT entrance
scholarship is necessary. Entrance scholarships are for the
first year after which students are eligible for consideration for
a faculty scholarship. Each faculty specifies academic criteria
that you need to meet in order to be eligible for a faculty
scholarship in subsequent years.

84

UCT’s entrance scholarships are for students who show
academic potential. Entrance scholarship offers are based
on considerations of how UCT wishes to constitute its new
undergraduate class.
This does mean that UCT is not able to make offers to each
of the many deserving cases that we consider, nor do we
guarantee entrance scholarships on the basis of secondary
school academic performance. Secondary school-leaving
applicants are considered for the following entrance
scholarships:
Entrance Scholarships: Each faculty has its own criteria
against which school-leavers are considered for the award
of an entrance scholarship. No application is necessary
applicants are automatically considered. Criteria for entrance
scholarship for holders of the National Senior Certificate
are available at www.uct.ac.za/dsa/student-fundingadministration-scholarships/entrance-scholarships
Sports Scholarships: These scholarships are available to
applicants who have represented their Province at a national
or age-group level. For details on how to apply, see page 75.
VICE-CHANCELLOR’S SCHOLARSHIPS: These scholarships
may be offered to:
•
The top ten achievers who are in grade 12 of the year of
the Olympiad, in each of the Mathematics Olympiad,
Computer Science Olympiad and English Olympiad Home Language, provided they applied for admission to
UCT and are awarded a place to study at UCT.
•
The winners of the Computer Applications Olympiad
and the English Olympiad - First Additional Language,
provided they are in grade 12 of the year of the Olympiad
and that they applied for admission to UCT and are
awarded a place to study at UCT.
•
Any of the Top 10 NSC achievers in the Western Cape
Education Department (WCED) who applied for
admission to and are awarded a place to study at UCT.
•
Any of the top 15 achievers in the National Senior
Certificate (NSC) final examinations (but excluding
candidates from schools in the Western Cape)
administered by the Department of Basic Education,
who applied for admission to and are awarded a study
place at UCT.
•
Any of the Top 5 NSC achievers from the Independent
Examination Board (IEB), who applied for admission to
and are offered a study place at UCT.
NOTE: UCT Council has determined that students who qualify
for both a tuition fee at the staff tuition rate, and a UCTfunded scholarship (entrance, faculty, VC, Achievement), will
have their scholarship adjusted equivalent to the staff tuition
rate percentage.

FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
NSFAS and UCT try to assist as many financially needy
students as possible, subject to available funds. Applicants

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

NOTE: Applying for financial assistance will have no impact
on your chances of being admitted for study at UCT.

Will all my costs be covered if I am successful? Costs
are covered based on funding policy. NSFAS applies an
accommodation cap for private accommodation and
university residences. For 2024, the accommodation cap
was R50 000, and may be revised annually by NSFAS. It is
important to therefore apply for other funding to help meet
the funding shortfall for residence accommodation charges.
www.uct.ac.za/dsa/student-funding-administrationfinancial-assistance/financial-aid

How do I apply? All applications for financial aid and NSFAS
funding will be managed centrally by NSFAS for all higher
education institutions. You can apply online at
www.nsfas.org.za/

NSFAS Bursary. The NSFAS funding provided to successful
applicants is a non-repayable bursary. The funding provided
by UCT is in the form of a bursary and a loan that is repayable
after your studies.

Will my application for financial aid affect my chances of
academic admission? No. Your application for admission is
not related to your application for financial assistance. These
are separate and independent processes. However, if you are
eligible for financial assistance the assistance is subject to
academic admission and registration at UCT.

Can I hold other awards along with the UCT financial
assistance? Yes. Funds are limited, and we encourage
students to look for other sources of funding to enable
more students to be assisted. It is especially important to
apply to as many funders as possible, as NSFAS funding for
accommodation and residence is capped, and will result in a
balance of accommodation fees that must be covered. You
are obliged to inform UCT immediately of any other financial
assistance you receive.

are assessed, and the minimum criteria for eligibility are:
•
financial need studying for a first undergraduate
qualification that is funded
•
be a South African citizen or a permanent resident of
South Africa

APPLYING FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

Is there a deadline for my application for financial
assistance? Yes. NSFAS has an application window. Ensure
that you check for the application opening and closing date.

Is UCT & NSFAS financial assistance renewable? Eligible
students are automatically considered for renewal based
on academic performance each year, continued financial
eligibility and the number of years of study. No student will
be funded for longer than the minimum duration of the
programme plus 1 year. NSFAS advises the academic criteria
for funding renewal annually. The NSFAS also reserves the
right to re-evaluate financial eligibility.

Why must I apply before I have an academic study offer?
It takes time to assess the eligibility of all applications
received. Knowing how you will pay for your studies, helps
you to make an informed decision about where you accept
a study offer. Eligible students can also able to receive their
allowances once they are registered.
How will my financial eligibility be assessed?
The NSFAS assists first-time entering students from families
with a gross income below R350 000. It is important to
note that gross family income is not the only criteria,
applicants must be South African citizens or South African
permanent residents that intend to register in an approved
funded programme (note that the PGCE, PGDA and LAWP01
programmes are no longer funded). Information on all NSFAS
funding rules is available on their website at www.nsfas.org.za

Transferring students must be aware that all years of study at
universities is counted when considering renewal of funding
on academic performance and the N+ Rule of how long a
student has been studying.
How can I get more information about financial assistance
at UCT? Please visit the UCT website, phone the Student
Financial Aid Office at +27 (0)21 650 3545, or email
FinancialAid@uct.ac.za, or visit the UCT financial aid website
for more information.

UCT however offers a GAP funding programme for those
students from families who are not NSFAS eligible, that have
a gross income between R350 000 and R600 000, that are
South African citizens or permanent residents intending to
register for an approved funded programme. UCT will make
GAP funding applications available to applicants/students
that are rejected by NSFAS on income above R350 000 to
evaluate your eligibility for GAP funding. Details of UCT’s GAP
funding eligibility is available on the UCT website.

The NSFAS funding provided to successful applicants is
a non-repayable bursary. The NSFAS also launched a loan
programme for students from families with a gross income
between R350 001 and R600 000, please check the NSFAS
website for information regarding the loan programme criteria
and availability. The funding provided by UCT is in the form of
a bursary and a loan that is repayable after your studies.

When will I know if I am eligible? NSFAS will inform you of
your eligibility for NSFAS and UCT will inform you if you qualify
for UCT GAP funding. You can track your NSFAS application
status on the MyNSFAS portal on which you applied for
NSFAS funding.

85

NB : ALL COPY IS LAST YEARS - ONLY ALL YEARS HAVE BEEN CHANGE UP BY 1 YEARS.
PAGES NO NEED TO ALL BE CHANGE STILL

STUDENT
LIFE AT UCT

LEARNING RESOURCES
Lectures, seminars, tutorials and laboratory classes form part of the
academic programme. In all of these settings students work and
learn together. The most formal of these is the lecture, which may be
attended by several hundred students, while tutorials offer contact
between small groups of students and a tutor.
Being at university is primarily about learning to work by yourself and
for yourself. In this section we describe some of the resources that
are available at UCT to help you succeed.

|

COMPUTING FACILITIES

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

a range of Extended Curriculum Programmes (ECPs) and
individual courses and workshops that support students
academically by offering extra material, more class time in
smaller groups, more contact with lecturers and more social
support than in other programmes. An ECP can be regarded
as a somewhat longer (usually up to a year longer), but safer
and more supported route to qualifying for a degree. In fact,
many students not on ECPs take longer anyway to complete
their degrees because of failing some of their courses
and being unable to continue. Failure could be avoided by
following an ECP instead.

UCT provides an extensive network of computer workstations
for use by students. All students are allocated a personal
email address and have access to UCT’s computer network
as soon as they register. Wireless coverage extends to all
campuses. Software applications available on campus range
from basic word-processing to advanced statistical and
design packages. In addition to the extensive network of
computers available to all students in UCT’s Library, Student
Learning Centres and faculty computer laboratories, several
departments have their own facilities with specialised
software to support teaching and learning in their degree
programmes.

Each Faculty at UCT has its own ADP unit, and the facultybased ECPs are fully integrated with later years of study in
the Faculty. There is no difference between a qualification
obtained following the ECP route and those obtained
following the usual route. ADP also helps to develop
innovative curricula and courses developing students’
language and quantitative literacy skills.

UCT LIBRARIES
UCT’s main library, the Chancellor Oppenheimer Library,
and its seven branch libraries offer a diverse array of study
and research materials, as well as professional and expert
assistance in finding information and carrying out research.
Library Buddies (student assistants) wearing the green ASK
ME bibs are found in the library ready to assist with any
library or general questions. In keeping with its central role
in the academic life of UCT, the Chancellor Oppenheimer
Library is centrally located on the upper campus, while
the branch libraries are spread across UCT’s various
campuses, close to the academic departments they serve.
The Libraries’ webpage provides 24/7 on- and off-campus
access to more than 84 000 electronic journals, a growing
collection of electronic books and 190 databases. There
are approximately 1,2 million print volumes, with more than
16 700 print journal titles. The modern design of the main
library draws on the very best models of university libraries
world-wide, offering spacious reading areas, numerous
computer workstations, audio-visual viewing areas, group
project rooms, wireless internet access and plug points, as
well ample photocopying, printing, and scanning facilities.
The Vincent Kolbe Knowledge Commons, our fully-equipped
undergraduate learning facility, provides both professional
help and high-end IT facilities for researching, writing, and
printing assignments to students. In addition, the 24/7 study
area offers a safe and comfortable space for those who
need to burn the midnight oil. A recent learning facility for
all students is the Library Learning Lounge which is a library
space without books but with amazing virtual services and
Library Buddies (student assistants) on hand to support
students in finding information. This is a “bring-your-owndevice” space in the Snape Building on upper campus.

The Writing Centre on Upper Campus and the Writing Lab on
the Health Sciences campus form part of ADP. At both these
writing centres students can book individual consultations
to work with a consultant on their academic writing. ADP
also offers short courses supporting postgraduate students.
For more information or contact details for your Faculty’s
ADP unit or the Writing Centres, visit the ADP page on the
CHED website: www.ched.uct.ac.za/ched/adp

CAREERS SERVICE
UCT Careers Service supports students to take ownership
of and make informed decisions about their futures through
a broad range of career development - and employability
consulting services, and networking opportunities. The
award-winning, future-focused, and innovative service has
been commended by both UCT students and employers
locally and internationally for its professional service and for
its effort to connect students to opportunities and support
them on their career journeys.

CONTACT US:
Tel: 		
+27 (0)21 650 3703/3704
Email: 		
libraries@uct.ac.za
Website: www.lib.uct.ac.za
Facebook: www.facebook.com/uctlibraries
Twitter:
@uctlibrary
Instagram: @uctlibraries

ACADEMIC DEVELOPMENT
The Academic Development Programme (ADP), based in
the Centre for Higher Education Development (CHED), runs

87

Careers Service offers free, oneon-one
consultations,
events,
and resources to all UCT students
to enable them to become
career ready and enhance their
employability. By visiting the
online careers portal, MyCareer,
at
mycareer.uct.ac.za/students/
login, students have 24/7 access
to a broad range of information
such as career events, bursaries
and employment opportunities.
Students can personalise their
MyCareer account to receive
customised notifications about
information and opportunities
relevant to them. Up-to-date
information is also available on the
website and social media. See social
media links in the Contact Us box
below. First year students are able to
access MyCareer from March, once the registration process
is complete. During those first weeks, first year students who
are curious about what career option they can pursue with
their degree or are unhappy with their choices can book a
virtual or phone appointment with a Careers Development
Consultant via email, careers.service@uct.ac.za, or phone
+27 (0)21 650 2497.
Careers Service supports students’ career development
throughout their time at UCT to enable them to navigate the
changing world of work. Apart from a commitment to create
career-ready graduates, Careers Service also has a strong
focus on empowering entrepreneurs.
Students use the Careers Service online portal,
https://mycareer.uct.ac.za/students . MyCareer, after their
registration is finalised. The portal provides 24/7 access to:
·
keep up to date with Careers Service news and events;
·
access internship and job opportunities;
·
source bursaries, scholarships;
·
book career consultations;
·
mock interviews;
·
job search strategies;
·
industry insights and trends; and
·
meeting space for employers interview
Alumni can access Careers Service for up to three years after
they graduate from UCT.

ORIENTATION
Orientation at UCT is a process through which you learn
about UCT. The purpose of this process is to assist you
in your transition and adjustment to your new learning
environment. It also ensures that you are accustomed to
life at UCT, so that you can make friends and feel at home
on campus, succeed at whatever you do (academic work,
sports, student societies, etc.), and develop pride in your
accomplishments.
Orientation is offered through a series of programmes.
Each faculty provides an orientation programme for its own
students, as does the International Academic Programmes
Office (IAPO) for international students, whilst students in
residence have residence orientation programmes.
Faculty orientation includes academic advice (about
courses and programmes), computer training, campus and
library tours, as well as introductions to student services.
IAPO’s programme covers a wide range of issues relevant to
international students: study visas; fees; medical-aid cover;
where to go to when in Cape Town and personal safety.
Residence Orientation helps students adjust to their new
living and learning environment and this includes both the
social and learning aspects and responsibilities of living in a
UCT residence.
www.dsa.uct.ac.za/student-orientation/welcome

STUDENT ORIENTATION AND ADVOCACY SERVICE (SOAS)
CONTACT US:
Enquiries:

Careers Service reception, Level 1,
Hoerikwaggo, North Lane, Upper Campus
Tel:
+27 (0)21 650 2497
Email:
careers.service@uct.ac.za
Website:
www.careers.uct.ac.za
Twitter:
@uctCareers
Instagram:
@UCTcareersservice
YouTube:
www.youtube.com/UCTCareersService
UCT Mobile App: UCT- Careers Service

88

SOAS is a student friendly, walk-in, advocacy and referral
office. SOAS deals with students’ needs and queries ranging
from directions (finding offices, buildings, people, venues,
etc.) to services offered by the Department of Student
Affairs. The SOAS provides access to printed information
(brochures, pamphlets, forms, notices, handbooks and other
university publications) and assistance with using these.
Students will be assisted and guided in processes relating
to an effective and manageable university life. An effective
referral system is in place that ensures sufficient support
and care to all students. SOAS works closely with faculties

|

2 0 2 6 U N D E R G R A D UAT E P R O S P E C T U S

minor procedures however; students who are on financial
aid are not charged.

and departments within UCT and where appropriate would
refer students to the relevant sector. Referral processes are
closely monitored to ensure students receive appropriate
and timeous assistance.

CONTACT US:
Tel:		 +27 (0)21 650 1020 or +27 (0)21 650 1017.
Website: uct.ac.za/dsa/student-wellnessservice/welcome-student-wellness-service-sws

CONTACT US:
Computer Science Building,
Room 2.01, Level 2, Upper Campus.
Email: UCTOrientation@uct.ac.za
Tel:
+27 (0)21 650 5082

DISABILITY SERVICE
The Disability Service strives to create an environment in
which persons with disabilities and neurodiversity can
participate equitably in all aspects of university life. Our
primary goal is to facilitate access to UCT services and
facilities for students, staff and visitors with disabilities. It is
important that you contact the Disability Service if you are
considering studying at UCT. Knowing about your access and
reasonable accommodations requirements well in advance
also enables us to ensure that a support system is in place
by the time you arrive.

STUDENT WELLNESS SERVICE
The Student Wellness Service (SWS) provides general medical
services and counselling during office hours throughout the
year and the service is located in various campuses of UCT
as clinics and satellite service points. Primary Health Care
services offered includes common ailments, manageable
medical conditions, minor surgical procedures, reproductive
health and pregnancy advise, travel advise, sports injuries
and a confidential HIV-testing service with pre-test and
post-test counselling. An onsite dispensary in the main clinic
provides essential medication at low cost. Psychological
services offered include individual therapy group therapy,
long term support groups, trauma debriefing and mental
health education.

We can also provide support with the UCT online application
process, guidance on your NSFAS application process, , as
well as provide vital information about writing the National
Benchmark Test (NBT) which most applicants need to take.

CONTACT US:
Steve Biko Students Union Building
Level 6, Upper Campus
Tel:
+27 (0)21 650 2427
Email: disabilityservice@uct.ac.za

Counselling services are offered in most campuses of the
university; the various service locations can be found on the
Department of Student Affairs website. Appointments can
be made on the SWS online system on the website or the
UCT App, however; emergencies can be accessed without an
appointment at the main clinic. The service charges nominal
fees for consultations (medical, nursing and counselling) and

89

CONTACT INFORMATION
FACULTIES

EMAIL ADDRESS

TEL NUMBER

Commerce

com-faculty@uct.ac.za

021 650 4375

Engineering & the Built Environment

ebe-faculty@uct.ac.za

021 650 2699

Health Sciences

fhs-ug-admiss@uct.ac.za

021 406 6346

Humanities

hum-ugrad@uct.ac.za

021 650 2717

Law

law-studies@uct.ac.za

021 650 3086

Science

sci-science@uct.ac.za

021 650 2712

Admissions Office

admissions@uct.ac.za

021 650 2128

NBT Office

nbt@uct.ac.za

021 650 3523

Disability Service

dsa-disabilityservice@uct.ac.za

021 650 2427

Fees Office

fnd-feeenq@uct.ac.za

021 650 1704

International Academic

iapo@uct.ac.za

021 650 2822

Pre-Admissions Careers Service

careers.service@uct.ac.za

021 650 2497

Sport & Recreation

sport@uct.ac.za

021 650 3563/3564

Student Housing

res@uct.ac.za

021 650 2977

Student Orientation and Advocacy

orientation@uct.ac.za

021 650 5082

Student Financial Aid Office

financialaid@uct.ac.za

021 650 3545/5094

OFFICES & SERVICES

OFFICE HOURS - MONDAY – FRIDAY*
Admissions Office		08h30 – 16h30
Fees Office		09h00 – 15h30
Student Housing		08h30 – 16h30

* UCT offices may be closed on Thursdays from 08h30 – 09h30
for staff training.

VISIT THE UCT HOME PAGE AT www.uct.ac.za

We have made every effort to ensure the accuracy of the information in this
Prospectus and other handbooks.
We reserve the right at any time, if circumstances dictate, to:
(i) make alterations or changes to any of the published details in this
Prospectus, as well as the courses and curricula on offer or
(ii) add to or withdraw any of the courses or programmes on offer.
We give students every assurance that changes to courses and curricula
will only be made under extraordinary and compelling circumstances
and we will inform students as soon as possible of any changes.

90

