2026

PROSPECTUS

UNDER
G R A D UAT E

Prof Letlhokwa Mpedi
Vice-Chancellor and Principal
University of Johannesburg

2

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Welcome to UJ

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

3

MESSAGE FROM THE
VICE-CHANCELLOR AND PRINCIPAL
As you embark on this next chapter, you are faced with the difficult but important decision
of where you will study and what you will choose to study. As you carefully weigh your
options, I assure you that the University of Johannesburg (UJ) is one of the most vibrant
and pulsating universities in South Africa. Although UJ is a relatively young institution in
the South African higher education landscape, we have soared to heights untold in recent
years. Our history is rich and represents a long legacy. In recent years, our deliberate
positioning in the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) and our emergence as a pan-African
institution have charted this path. Additionally, we have placed an emphasis on research
that addresses the United NationsŌĆÖ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and contributes
to policy development. Our learning revolution, now, is one defined by our societal
impact in this endeavour. Our goal is not only to impart knowledge but also to empower
individuals to contribute meaningfully to society. We are a dynamic University, actively
shaping the future around us.
We are committed to your academic and intellectual
development with a focus on preparing you for the
future. The world around us is rapidly changing and
so too are the requirements for success. At UJ, we arm
you with the skills and ability to participate and thrive
in the 4IR. More so, we do this with an emphasis on
societal impact and sustainability. This is grounded
in the belief that universities are not only centres
of learning but are also powerful agents for change
within their communities and beyond.
At UJ, you will encounter the finest academic
minds from diverse backgrounds, spanning across
the world, who will contribute to your academic
success. There are a wide selection of cutting-edge
programmes spanning seven faculties and one
college. UJ has adopted a technology-rich approach
to teaching and learning. As a result, UJŌĆÖs global
stature and academic robustness are recognised
by the most prestigious global higher education
ranking systems in the world. In recent years, UJ
has emerged as a competitive player, not only in
South Africa but also on the continent, and has risen
significantly in these rankings. UJ has demonstrably
excelled in teaching, learning, research, and carving
our footprint in recent years. We have done so as an
academic community.
Our priority is maximising your student experience.
The transition to University can seem daunting but
UJ has systems and structures in place to ensure
that this is a seamless process. For example, UJŌĆÖs
First Year Experience Programme provides support
and development opportunities, while robust
academic and tutor support programmes ensure
a seamless journey during your university studies.
We offer dynamic first-year courses, ranging from
African Experiences to Artificial Intelligence (AI)
to an introduction to the SDGs, aimed at giving
4

our students a competitive edge. Our Senior Year
Experience Programme will boost you towards
your final year, graduation and beyond. At every
tier, UJ is committed to contributing to your
holistic development. Alongside an enjoyable,
safe, supportive and intellectually stimulating
environment, we provide opportunities for you
to expand your network. You will be able to grow
networks that will sustain you throughout your
life. Our close and sustained relationship with our
alumni demonstrates our shared commitment to
UJŌĆÖs vision.
Our impact on our own community and beyond
our doors has grown in strength and force. We are
cultivating a university that truly serves as a catalyst
for societal advancement. As a result, UJ graduates
are leaving their mark on our country, continent and
internationally. At UJ, we ensure that you emerge
from our institution as an individual actively and
deliberately contributing to a better future. If your
goal is to make a lasting impact on society and
demonstrate innovation and resilience, this is the
right choice.
Best of luck with this important decision! The
opportunities and vistas that can be explored at UJ
are limitless and we hope to welcome you here next
year. This is your future, reimagined!
Prof Letlhokwa Mpedi
Vice-Chancellor and Principal

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

MOLAET┼ĀA GO T┼ĀWA
GO MOTLAT┼ĀAMOKHANSELIRI LE HLOGO
Ge o thoma ka leeto le le latelago, o lebagane le sephetho se boima eup┼Īa ke se bohlokwa
sa moo o tla go ithuta gona le seo o tlago go kgetha go ithuta sona. Ge o dut┼Īe o ela
dikgetho t┼Īa gago ka kelohloko, ke go netefalet┼Īa gore Yunibesithi ya Johannesburg
(UJ) ke ye nngwe ya diyunibesithi t┼Īeo di nago le bophelo kudu le go ba yeo e thabi┼Īago
kudu ka mo Afrika Borwa. Le ge e le gore UJ ke setheo se sefsa ka mo go thuto ya ka
godimo ya Afrika Borwa, re hlatloget┼Īe godimo go fihla bokgoleng bjo bo sa bolelwego
mo mengwageng ya bjale. Histori ya rena e humile e bile e emela bohwa bjo botelele. Mo
mengwageng ya bjale, go bewa ga rena ka boomo ka go Phetogo ya Bone ya Intasteri (4IR)
le go t┼Īwelela ga rena bjalo ka setheo sa Afrika ka moka di hlamile tsela ye. Godimo ga fao,
re beile kgatelelo go dinyaki┼Īi┼Īo t┼Īeo di lebanego le Dinepo t┼Īa Tlhabollo ya go ya go ile
t┼Īa Dit┼Īhabakopano (SDGs) le go tsenya letsogo go tlhabollo ya pholisi. Phetogo ya rena
ya go ithuta, ga bjale, ke yeo e hlalo┼Īit┼Īwego ke khuet┼Īo ya rena ya set┼Īhaba maitekong a.
Maikemi┼Īet┼Īo a rena ga se feela go feti┼Īet┼Īa tsebo eup┼Īa gape ke go matlafat┼Īa batho ka
o tee ka o tee go tsenya letsogo ka mo go nago le morero set┼Īhabeng. Re Yunibesithi ye e
fetogago, yeo e agago ka mafolofolo bokamoso bjo bo re dikologilego.
Re ikgafile go tlhabollo ya gago ya thuto le ya
tlhaologanyo ka nepo ya go go loki┼Īet┼Īa bokamoso.
Lefase leo le re dikologilego le fetoga ka lebelo gomme go
bjalo le ka dinyakwa t┼Īa katlego. Ka mo UJ, re go hlomela
ka bokgoni le bokgoni bja go t┼Īea karolo le go atlega
ka go 4IR. Go feta fao, re dira se ka kgatelelo ya khuet┼Īo
ya set┼Īhaba le kgotlelelo ya nako e telele. Se se theilwe
tumelong ya gore diyunibesithi ga se mafelo a thuto fela
eup┼Īa gape ke dikemedi t┼Īa maatla t┼Īa phetogo ka gare
ga dit┼Īhaba t┼Īa t┼Īona le ka ntle ga t┼Īona.
Ka mo UJ, o tla kopana le menagano ye mebotse kudu
ya thuto go t┼Īwa ditlogong t┼Īe di fapanego t┼Īeo di
akaret┼Īago lefase ka bophara, t┼Īeo di tlago tsenya letsogo
katlegong ya gago ya thuto. Go na le kgetho e kgolo ya
mananeo a maemo a godimo ao a akaret┼Īago mafapha a
┼Īupago le kholet┼Īhe e tee. UJ e amoget┼Īe mokgwa wo o
humilego ka theknolot┼Īi wa go ruta le go ithuta. Ka lebaka
leo, maemo a lefase le go tia ga dithuto ka mo UJ di
lemogwa ke ditshepedi┼Īo t┼Īa maemo a godimo kudu t┼Īa
lefase ka bophara t┼Īa maemo a thuto ya godimo lefaseng.
Mo mengwageng ya gona bjale, UJ e t┼Īwelet┼Īe bjalo ka
mot┼Īeakarolo wa phadi┼Īano, e sego fela ka Afrika Borwa
eup┼Īa gape le ka kontinenteng, gomme e hlatlogile kudu
maemong a. UJ e bont┼Īhit┼Īe go phadima kudu ka mo go
ruteng, go ithuta, go nyaki┼Īi┼Īa le go betla kgato ya rena ya
maoto mo mengwageng ya gona bjale. Re dirile seo bjalo
ka set┼Īhaba sa barutegi.
Selo seo se tlago pele ke go godi┼Īa boitemogelo bja
gago bja go ba moithuti. Phetogo ya go ya yunibesithing
e ka bonagala e le ye e boifi┼Īago, eup┼Īa UJ e na le
ditshepedi┼Īo le dibopego t┼Īe di lego gona go netefat┼Īa
gore ye ke tshepedi┼Īo ye e se nago mathata. Ka mohlala,
Lenaneo la Maitemogelo a Ngwaga wa Pele la UJ le
fana ka menyetla ya thekgo le tlhabollo, mola mananeo
a go tia a thuto le a thekgo ka bathu┼Īabafahlo┼Īi a
netefat┼Īa leeto le le se nago mathata nakong ya
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

dithuto t┼Īa gago t┼Īa yunibesithi. Re fana ka dithuto
t┼Īa ngwaga wa mathomo t┼Īe di fetogago, go tloga go
Maitemogelo a Afrika go ya go Bohlale bja Maitirelo (AI)
go ya go t┼Īwelet┼Īo ya SDGs, t┼Īeo di lebi┼Īit┼Īwego go fa
baithuti ba rena maemo a phadi┼Īano. Lenaneo la rena
la Maitemogelo a Ngwaga wa Godimo le tla go godi┼Īa
go ya ngwageng wa gago wa mafelelo, go aloga le go
feta. Mo legatong le lengwe le le lengwe, UJ e ikgafile
go tsenya letsogo tlhabollong ya gago ye e felet┼Īego.
Go bapa le tikologo ye e thabi┼Īago, ye e bolokegilego,
ye e thekgago le ye e hlohlelet┼Īago tlhaologanyo, re
go fa dibaka t┼Īa go katolo┼Īa neteweke ya gago. O tla
kgona go godi┼Īa dineteweke t┼Īeo di tlago go t┼Īwet┼Īa
pele bophelong bja gago ka moka. Kamano ya rena ya
kgauswi le ya go ya go ile le dialoga t┼Īa rena e laet┼Īa
boikgafo bja rena bjo bo abelanwago go pono ya UJ.
Khuet┼Īo ya rena set┼Īhabeng sa rena le ka ntle ga mejako
ya rena e got┼Īe ka maatla le ka t┼Īhu┼Īumet┼Īo. Re hlagolela
yunibesithi yeo e tlogago e ┼Īoma bjalo ka se┼Īu┼Īumelet┼Īi
sa t┼Īwelopele ya set┼Īhaba. Ka lebaka leo, dialoga t┼Īa UJ
di tlogela leswao la t┼Īona nageng ya rena, kontinenteng
le bodit┼Īhabat┼Īhabeng. Ka mo UJ, re netefat┼Īa gore o
t┼Īwelela go t┼Īwa setheong sa rena bjalo ka motho ka
no┼Īi yo a tsenyago letsogo ka mafolofolo le ka tebanyo
go bokamoso bjo bokaone. Ge e le gore nepo ya gago
ke go dira khuet┼Īo ya go ya go ile set┼Īhabeng le go
laet┼Īa boitlhamelo le go kgotlelela, ye ke kgetho ye e
nepaget┼Īego.
Mahlatse le mahlogonolo ka sephetho se se bohlokwa!
Menyetla le dipono t┼Īeo di ka hwet┼Īwago kua UJ ga
di na mellwane gomme re holofela go le amogela mo
ngwageng wo o tlago. Bjo ke bokamoso bja gago, bjo
bo nagannwego gape!
Prof Letlhokwa Mpedi
Motlat┼Īamokhanseliri le Hlogo
5

BOODSKAP VAN DIE
VISEKANSELIER EN REKTOR
Soos jy met hierdie volgende hoofstuk begin, staan jy voor die moeilike maar belangrike
besluit van waar jy gaan studeer en wat jy sal kies om te studeer. Terwyl jy jou opsies
noukeurig opweeg, verseker ek jou dat die Universiteit van Johannesburg (UJ) een van
die lewendigste en polsendste universiteite in Suid-Afrika is. Alhoewel UJ ŌĆÖn relatief
jong instelling in die Suid-Afrikaanse ho├½ronderwyslandskap is, het ons oor die laaste
paar jaar tot ongekende hoogtes gestyg. Ons geskiedenis is ryk en verteenwoordig ŌĆÖn
ryk nalatenskap. Onlangs het ons doelbewuste posisionering in die Vierde Industri├½le
Revolusie (4IR) en ons opkoms as ŌĆÖn Pan-Afrikaanse instelling hierdie pad uitgestippel.
Daarbenewens plaas ons klem op navorsing wat die Verenigde Nasies se Volhoubare
Ontwikkelingsdoelwitte (VODŌĆÖs) aanspreek en bydra tot beleidsontwikkeling. Ons
leerrevolusie, is nou, een wat gedefinieer word deur ons sosiale impak in hierdie strewe.
Ons is ŌĆÖn dinamiese Universiteit wat die toekoms aktief om ons vorm.
Ons is verbind tot jou akademiese en intellektuele
ontwikkeling met die fokus daarop om jou vir die
toekoms voor te berei. Die w├¬reld rondom ons
verander vinnig en so ook die vereistes vir sukses.
By UJ bewapen ons jou met die vaardighede en
die vermo├½ om aan die 4IR deel te neem en te
floreer. Meer nog, ons doen dit met die klem op
maatskaplike impak en volhoubaarheid. Dit berus
op die geloof dat universiteite nie net leerinstellings
is nie, maar ook kragtige agente vir verandering in
hul gemeenskappe en die wyer samelewing.
By UJ sal jy vooruitstrewende akademici uit
verskillende agtergronde, van regoor die w├¬reld,
wie sal bydra tot jou akademiese sukses te├½kom.
Daar is ŌĆÖn wye verskeidenheid vooraanstaande
programme, wat wissel van voorgraadse diplomas
tot doktorsgrade in ons sewe fakulteite en een
kollege. UJ het ŌĆÖn tegnologie-gedrewe benadering
tot onderrig en leer aangeneem, wat vergelykbaar
is met van die beste universiteite ter w├¬reld. UJ se
w├¬reldwye statuur en akademiese robuustheid
word erken deur die mees gesaghebbende
w├¬reldranglyste vir ho├½r onderwys. UJ het die
afgelope jare as ŌĆÖn sterk mededinger na vore
getree, nie net in Suid-Afrika nie, maar ook op die
vasteland, en het aansienlik verbeter op hierdie
ranglys. UJ het die afgelope jare aantoonbaar
uitgeblink in onderrig, leer, navorsing en die kerf
van ons voetspoor. Ons het dit as ŌĆśn akademiese
gemeenskap gedoen.
Ons prioriteit is die maksimalisering van jou
studente-ervaring. Die oorgang na universiteit kan
skrikwekkend lyk, maar UJ het stelsels en strukture
in plek om te verseker dat dit ŌĆÖn naatlose proses is.
UJ se eerstejaar-ervaringsprogram bied byvoorbeeld
ondersteunings- en ontwikkelingsgeleenthede,
terwyl robuuste akademiese en
tutorondersteuningsprogramme ŌĆÖn naatlose reis
6

tydens jou universiteitstudie verseker. Ons bied
dinamiese eerstejaarkursusse aan, wat wissel van
Afrika-ervarings tot Kunsmatige Intelligensie (KI)
tot ŌĆÖn inleiding tot die VODŌĆÖs, wat daarop gemik
is om ons studente ŌĆÖn mededingende voordeel te
gee. Ons Seniorjaarervaringsprogram sal jou ŌĆÖn
hupstoot gee vir jou finale jaar, gradeplegtigheid
en daarna. Op elke vlak is UJ daartoe verbind om by
te dra tot jou holistiese ontwikkeling. Benewens ŌĆÖn
genotvolle, veilige, ondersteunende en intellektueel
stimulerende omgewing, bied ons geleenthede vir
jou om jou netwerk uit te brei. Jy kan netwerke bou
wat jou lewenslank sal ondersteun. Ons noue en
volgehoue verhouding met ons alumni demonstreer
ons gedeelde verbintenis tot UJ se visie.
Ons impak op ons eie gemeenskap en buite ons
deure het van krag tot krag gegroei. Ons bou
aan ŌĆÖn universiteit wat ŌĆÖn kragtige katalisator vir
maatskaplike vooruitgang is. Gevolglik laat UJgegradueerdes hul merk op ons land, vasteland
en daarbuite. UJ bied jou die geleentheid om ŌĆÖn
individu te word wat die toekoms tot voordeel van
ons w├¬reld herbedink. As jou doel is om ŌĆÖn blywende
impak op die samelewing te maak en innovasie en
veerkragtigheid te demonstreer, is dit die regte keuse.
Sterkte met hierdie belangrike besluit! Die
geleenthede en vistas wat by UJ verken kan word is
onbeperk en ons hoop om jou volgende jaar hier te
verwelkom. Dit is jou toekoms, herbedink!
Prof Letlhokwa Mpedi
Visekanselier en Rektor

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

UMLAYEZO OVELA KUSEKELA
SHANSELA NOTHISHANHLOKO
Njengoba uqala lesi sahluko esilandelayo, ubhekene nesinqumo esinzima kodwa
esibalulekile sokuthi uzofunda kuphi nokuthi uzokhetha ukufundelani. Njengoba
ucabangisisa ngezinketho zakho, ngiyakuqinisekisa ukuthi iNyuvesi yase-Johannesburg
(UJ) ingenye yamanyuvesi anempilo futhi enza kahle kakhulu eNingizimu Afrika. Nakuba
i-UJ iyisikhungo esisesisha emkhakheni wezemfundo ephakeme eNingizimu Afrika,
senyuke safinyelela ezingeni elingakaze libalwe eminyakeni yamuva nje. Umlando
wethu unothile futhi umele ifa elingapheli. Eminyakeni yamuva nje, ukuma kwethu
ngokuqondiwe kuGuquko Yezimboni Yesine (4IR) kanye nokuvela kwethu njengesikhungo
sase-Afrika yonkana kusungule le ndlela. Ukwengeza, sigcizelele ocwaningweni
olubhekana neziNhloso Zokuthuthukiswa Okusimeme kweNhlangano yeZizwe (amaSDG) futhi olufaka isandla ekuthuthukisweni kwenqubomgomo. Manje, uguquko lwethu
lokufunda yilolo oluchazwa umthelela wethu emphakathini kulo mzamo. Umgomo
wethu akukona nje ukudlulisa ulwazi kodwa futhi ukuhlomisa abantu ukuba banikele
emphakathini ngendlela enenhloso. SiyiNyuvesi eguquguqukayo, eyakha ngenkuthalo
ikusasa elisizungezile.
Sizibophezele ekuthuthukisweni kwakho kwezemfundo
nakwezobuhlakani sigxile ekukulungiseleleni
ikusasa. Izwe elisizungezile lishintsha ngokushesha
kanjalo nezidingo zempumelelo. E-UJ, sikuhlomisa
ngamakhono kanye nokukwazi ukubamba iqhaza
futhi uphumelele ku-4IR. Ngaphezu kwalokho, lokhu
sikwenza ngokugcizelela kumthelela womphakathi
nasekusimameni.
Lokhu kuncike enkolelweni yokuthi amanyuvesi
awazona nje izikhungo zokufunda kuphela kodwa futhi
angamanxusa anamandla oshintsho emiphakathini
yawo nangale kwalokho.
E-UJ, uzohlangana nongqondongqondo
abanezimvelaphi ezihlukene, abavela kuwo wonke
umhlaba, abazofaka isandla empumelelweni yakho
yezifundo. Kukhona izinhlelo eziningi eziseqophelweni
okungakhethwa kuzona kubalwa amafakhalithi
ayisikhombisa kanye nekholishi elilodwa. I-UJ
isebenzisa indlela yokufundisa nokufunda enothe
ngethekhnoloji. Ngenxa yalokho, isimo se-UJ
emhlabeni wonke kanye nokuqina kwezemfundo
kwaziwa ngezinhlelo zokulinganisa eziseqophelweni
eliphezulu kakhulu emfundweni ephakeme emhlabeni
jikelele. Eminyakeni yamuva nje, i-UJ iqhamuke
njengomdlali ongenele umqhudelwano, hhayi
eNingizimu Afrika kuphela kodwa nasezwenikazi lonke,
futhi inyuke kakhulu kulawa mazinga. I-UJ iphumelele
ngokubonakalayo ekufundiseni, ekufundeni,
ocwaningweni nasekuvezeni konke okwenziwe
yiyo eminyakeni yamuva nje. Sikwenzile lokho
njengomphakathi wezemfundo.
Okubalulekile kithina ukukhulisa ulwazi lwakho
njengomfundi. Ukushintshela enyuvesi kungabonakala
kunzima, kodwa i-UJ inezinhlelo nezinhlaka
zokuqinisekisa ukuthi lolu wuhlelo olungenazihibe.
Isibonelo, Uhlelo Lwabaqalayo e-UJ luhlinzeka
ngamathuba okuseka nawokuthuthukisa, kuyilapho
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

izinhlelo eziqinile zezemfundo nokweseka abafundisi
ziqinisekisa uhambo olungenazihibe phakathi
nezifundo zakho zasenyuvesi. Sihlinzeka ngezifundo
ezishukumisayo zonyaka wokuqala, kusukela kuLwazi
Lwe-Afrika (African Experiences) kuya kuBuhlakani
Bokwenziwa (Artificial Intelligence) kuya ekuthulweni
kwama-SDGs, okuhloswe ngawo ukunikeza abafundi
bethu ithuba lokuncintisana. Uhlelo lwethu Lwabafundi
abasebamkantshŌĆÖ ubomvu luzokuthuthukisa ukuya
onyakeni wakho wokugcina, ukuthweswa iziqu
nangale kwalokho. Kuwo wonke amazinga, i-UJ
izimisele ukufaka isandla ekuthuthukisweni kwakho
ngokuphelele. Okuhambisana nendawo ejabulisayo,
ephephile, esekayo nevuselela ubuhlakani, sikunikeza
amathuba okukhulisa inethiwekhi yakho. Uzokwazi
ukukhulisa amanethiwekhi azokuxhasa impilo yakho
yonke. Ubudlelwano bethu obuqinile nobuqhubekayo
nabafundi bethu bakudala bukhombisa
ukuzibophezela kwethu kumbono we-UJ.
Umthelela wethu emphakathini wethu nangaphandle
kwemingcele yethu ukhule ngamandla amakhulu.
Sakha inyuvesi esebenza ngempela njengesikhuthazi
senqubekela-phambili yomphakathi. Ngenxa yalokho,
abathweswe iziqu e-UJ bashiya izithelo ezinhle ezweni
lethu, ezwenikazi kanye nasemhlabeni wonke. E-UJ,
siqinisekisa ukuthi uphuma esikhungweni sethu
njengomuntu onikela ngenkuthalo nangokuqondiwe
kukusasa elingcono. Uma inhloso yakho kuwukuba
nomthelela waphakade emphakathini nokukhombisa
ukusungula izinto ezintsha nokuqina, ukhethe kahle.
Sikufisela inhlanhla ngalesi sinqumo esibalulekile!
Amathuba nezimo ezinhle ezingabhekwa e-UJ
azinamkhawulo futhi sithemba ukuthi sizokwamukela
lapha ngonyaka ozayo. Leli ikusasa lakho,
elicatshangelwe kabusha!

Slz Letlhokwa Mpedi
USekela-Shansela neNhloko
7

8

VISION
An international
University of choice,
anchored in Africa
and the global south,
dynamically shaping a
sustainable future.

MISSION
To transform and
serve humanity
through innovation
and the collective and
collaborative pursuit
of knowledge.

VALUES
Impact
Innovation
Inclusivity
Integrity

www.uj.ac.za
9

10

2023/2024 Global University Rankings

Shanghai Ranking (ARWU)
’éĪ ARWU World University Rankings: 401-500 in the world / #3 in South Africa and #4 in Africa
’éĪ Global Ranking of Academic Subjects (GRAS): [NOTE: THESE ARE STILL THE 2023 OUTCOMES]
Hospitality & Tourism Management: #6 in the world, #1 in South Africa and Africa
Food Science & Technology: Top 150 in the world, #1 in South Africa and #2 in Africa
Sociology: Top 150 in the world, #1 and only one ranked in South Africa and Africa
Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences: Top 300 in the world, #1 in South Africa
Business Administration: Top 300 in the world, #2 in South Africa and Africa
Management: Top 300 in the world, #1 and only one ranked in South Africa and #1 in Africa
Earth Sciences: Top 300 in the world, joint #1 in South Africa and Africa
Geography: Top 300 in the world, joint #2 in South Africa and Africa
Electrical & Electronic Engineering: Top 400 in the world, #1 and only one ranked in South Africa and joint #1 in Africa
Economics: Top 400 in the world, joint #2 in South Africa and Africa
Ecology: Top 500 in the world, #8 in South Africa
Chemical Engineering: Top 500 in the world, joint #2 in South Africa and joint #4 Africa
Education: Top 500 in the world, joint #1 in South Africa and Africa
Physics: Top 500 in the world, joint #3 in South Africa and Africa
Quacquarelli Symonds (QS)
’éĪ QS World University Rankings: #312 in the world, in the Top 1% / #4 in South Africa and Africa
’éĪ QS Subject Rankings:
Anthropology: Top 150 in the world, joint #2 in South Africa and Africa
Development Studies: Top 130 in the world, #7 in South Africa
Hospitality & Leisure Management: Top 160 in the world, #2 in South Africa and #3 in Africa
Education & Training: Top 350 in the world, joint #2 in South Africa and joint #3 in Africa
Chemical Engineering: Top 350 in the world, joint #2 in South Africa and joint #4 in Africa
Environmental Sciences: Top 400 in the world, #5 in South Africa and #6 in Africa
Materials Sciences: Top 400 in the world, joint #1 in South Africa and joint #2 in Africa
Economics & Econometrics: Top 450 in the world, joint #4 in South Africa and joint #5 in Africa
Electrical & Electronic Engineering: Top 450 in the world, joint #2 in South Africa and joint #6 in Africa
Mechanical, Aeronautical & Manufacturing Engineering: Top 450 in the world, joint #4 in South Africa
Chemistry: Top 500 in the world, #2 in South Africa and joint #4 in Africa
Mathematics: Top 550 in the world, joint #4 in South Africa and joint #5 in Africa
Medicine: Top 550 in the world, #6 in South Africa
Physics & Astronomy: Top 550 in the world, #4 in South Africa and #5 in Africa
Business & Management Studies: Top 600 in the world, #4 in South Africa and #6 in Africa
Biological Sciences: Top 650 in the world, #6 in South Africa
’éĪ QS Sustainability Rankings: #239 in the world, #4 in South Africa and Africa
Times Higher Education (THE)
’éĪ THE World University Rankings: 401-500 in the world / #4 in South Africa and Africa
’éĪ THE Subject Rankings: [NOTE: THESE ARE STILL THE 2023 OUTCOMES]
Education: Top 200 in the world, joint #2 in South Africa and Africa
Business & Economics: Top 250 in the world, #1 in South Africa and Africa
Social Sciences: Top 250 in the world, #3 in South Africa and Africa
Law: Top 250 in the world, #5 in South Africa and Africa
Engineering: Top 400 in the world, #1 in South Africa and Africa
Physical Sciences: Top 400 in the world, joint #1 in South Africa and Africa
Psychology: Top 400 in the world, joint #2 in South Africa and Africa
Life Sciences: Top 400 in the world, joint #3 in South Africa and Africa
Arts & Humanities: Top 400 in the world, #5 in South Africa and Africa
Computer Science: Top 500 in the world, joint #1 in South Africa and joint #3 in Africa
Clinical & Health: Top 600 in the world, joint #6 in South Africa
’éĪ THE Impact Rankings: #36 in the world, #1 in South Africa and Africa
’éĪ THE Young University Rankings: #60 among young universities, #1 in South Africa and Africa
’éĪ THE Sub-Saharan Africa University Rankings: #2 among universities in the sub-Saharan Africa region, #2 in South Africa
US News & World ReportŌĆÖs Best Global Universities Rankings (BGUR)
’éĪ BGUR World University Rankings: #357 in the world, #4 in South Africa and #9 in Africa
’éĪ BGUR Subject Rankings:
Green & Sustainable Science & Technology: #75 in the world, #1 in South Africa and Africa
Social Sciences & Public Health: #111 in the world, #2 in South Africa and Africa
Polymer Science: #144 in the world, #1 in South Africa and #6 in Africa
Economics & Business: #157 in the world, #2 in South Africa and Africa
Chemistry: #196 in the world, #1 in South Africa and Africa
Environmental Engineering: #213 in the world, #1 in South Africa and Africa
Arts & Humanities: #222 in the world, #5 in South Africa and Africa
Chemical Engineering: #249 in the world, #1 in South Africa and Africa
Environment/Ecology: #265 in the world, #4 in South Africa and Africa
Geosciences: #281 in the world, #3 in South Africa and Africa
Engineering: #296 in the world, #1 in South Africa and #9 in Africa
Physics: #311 in the world, #3 in South Africa and Africa
Physical Chemistry: #338 in the world, #1 in South Africa and #3 in Africa
Energy & Fuels: #357 in the world, #2 in South Africa and #9 in Africa
Public, Environmental & Occupational Health: #372 in the world, #7 in South Africa
Psychiatry/Psychology: #379 in the world, #4 in South Africa and Africa
Mathematics: #431 in the world, #2 in South Africa
Plant & Animal Science: #437 in the world, #7 in South Africa
Electrical & Electronic Engineering: #438 in the world, #1 in South Africa
Computer Science: #442 in the world, #1 in South Africa and #7 in Africa
Biology & Biochemistry: #463 in the world, #3 in South Africa
Materials Science: #571 in the world, #1 in South Africa and #9 in Africa
Clinical Medicine: #837 in the world, #8 in South Africa
Center for World University Rankings (CWUR)
’éĪ CWUR World University Rankings: 624 in the world, in the Top 3% / #6 in South Africa and #7 in Africa
University Ranking by Academic Performance (URAP)
’éĪ URAP World University Rankings: 467 in the world / #5 in South Africa and #8 in Africa

CONTENTS

02 Message from the Vice-Chancellor
and Principal
Molaet┼Īa go t┼Īwa go Motlat┼Īamokhanseliri le Hlogo
Umyalezo Ovela Kusekela-Shansela Nothishanhloko
Boodskap van die Vise-kanselier en Rektor

12 Applying at UJ
13
13
13
14
14
15
17

Application Process
Paper Applications
Online Application Process
Application Fees
Closing Dates
How to determine your Admission Point Score (APS)
International StudentsŌĆÖ Admission Requirements

20 Campus Life at UJ
20
20
20
22
22
22
22
23
24
24
24
25
25
25
26
26
26

Campuses
Languages of instruction
Psychological Services and Career Development (PsyCaD)
Disability Unit
Library and Information Centre (LIC)
Putting learning in your hands
Computer Laboratories and Wi-Fi hotspots
UJ Arts & Culture
Primary Health Care Services
Centre for Academic Technologies (CAT) (uLink)
UJ Sport
Protection Services
Student Centres
Student Accommodation
Private accredited off-campus accommodation
Residence Enquiries
Day Houses

27 Student Finance
27
27
27
28
28
28
28

Bursaries
Merit Bursaries
Orange Carpet Campaign
Leadership Bursary
Culture and Sports Bursaries
National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS)
Fundi (Edu-Loan)

29 Faculty Contact Details
30 Faculties/College
30 ’ü¦ Faculty of Art, Design and Architecture
38 ’ü¦ College of Business and Economics
52 ’ü¦ Faculty of Education
58 ’ü¦ Faculty of Engineering and the Built Environment
64 ’ü¦ Faculty of Health Sciences
72 ’ü¦ Faculty of Humanities
80 ’ü¦ Faculty of Law
84 ’ü¦ Faculty of Science

98 Why you should study at UJ
Information correct at the time of publication: March 2025

11

Applying at UJ

12

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

www.uj.ac.za/Apply

Our Future. Reimagined.
The University of Johannesburg offers internationally respected and accepted
certificates, diplomas and degrees at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
With at least 178 undergraduate programmes
to choose from, you can take your pick.
These programmes are offered in the following
eight faculties*:
’ü¦ Art, Design and Architecture
’ü¦ Business and Economics (College*)
’ü¦ Education
’ü¦ Engineering and the Built Environment
’ü¦ Health Sciences
’ü¦ Humanities
’ü¦ Law
’ü¦ Science
To be able to gain access to a faculty* and to
a specific programme, applicants are required
to have the appropriate combination of
recognised National Senior Certificate (NSC) or
Independent Examinations Board (IEB) subjects
as well as certain levels of achievement in these
subjects as set out in this prospectus.
Learners who have not written the National
Senior Certificate (NSC) or Independent
Examinations Board (IEB) final examinations, but
fall in the categories listed below will be referred
to the faculties* for faculty-specific selection:
’éĪ ACE School of Tomorrow
’éĪ NCV, NASCA, SC(a)
’éĪ N3/N4/N5/N6 results
’éĪ Any other final school-leaving certificates
not aforementioned.
’éĪ PsyCaD evaluation and NBT results may be
required.
Note: Compliance with the minimum requirements does not guarantee a place, as the
University has a specific number of places as approved by the Department of Higher Education
and Training for new undergraduate first years.

Provisional admission is based on the final
Grade 11 results for applicants still in matric, as
well as final Grade 12 results for applicants who
have already completed matric. Final admission
is based on the final Grade 12 results.
Only once you have applied and you have your
reference/student number will you be able to
investigate bursaries that may cover your studies.

APPLICATION PROCESS
ONLINE APPLICATION
Please note the following:
’éĪ No application fee will be charged for online
applications.
’éĪ If you have previously applied and have a
UJ student number, please call the UJ Call
Centre (011 559 4555) to ensure that your cell
number and email address are captured on
our student database. This will ensure that
you receive a PIN number to complete the
online application process.
’éĪ An applicant must go to www.uj.ac.za/Apply
and select 'Apply' to complete an application.

PAPER APPLICATIONS
Step 1: Select your qualification study choices
1 and 2. (Ensure you meet the admission
requirements as set out in this prospectus.)
Step 2: If you do not have a UJ student number,
please make an application fee payment
of R200 and complete the UJ academic
application form.
Step 3: Submit your application to any of UJŌĆÖs
four campuses. Please allow for three
weeks before checking on the status
of your application. If your application

* Please note: Reference to "faculties" in this publication includes the "college".
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

Step 3 continues on page 14
13

meets the necessary requirements
and there is space in your selected
programme, you will be informed on
whether your application has been
successful or not.
Please note that all official communication
will be sent via email. You may also go to the
UJ website to check your application status
using your ID or student number.
NB: Registration is dependent on final
admission in January.

Disclaimer: In order to be considered for
selection for a programme, an applicant is
required to comply with the programmeŌĆÖs
minimum admission requirements in respect
of the total APS as well as subject specific
requirements (as determined per programme).

www.uj.ac.za/Apply
CLOSING DATES
FOR APPLICATIONS
UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES
All Undergraduate
Programmes

31 October 2025 @
12:00

STUDENT ACCOMMODATION
All Undergraduate
Programmes

31 October 2025 @
12:00

For more information visit
www.uj.ac.za

14

APPLICATION FEES
Apply online for which no application fee
is charged, or, apply with a paper-based
application form and pay an application fee
of R200 into UJŌĆÖs bank account (first-time
applicants only).
Students without a valid UJ student number, but
with a valid South African ID Number or Passport
Number, must use the following account.
Banking Details:
FNB UJ Main Account
Account type: Cheque
Account number: 626 158 73280
Branch name: FNB Client Services
Branch code: 210-554
Reference on the deposit slip: Please use
your ID Number as the reference.
’éĪ If you are prompted for a SWIFT CODE, you
must provide the following information:
FIRNZ AJJ.
’éĪ Please attach a copy of proof of payment
when you submit your paper/hardcopy
application form.
’éĪ Be sure to make a photocopy of your deposit
slip and keep it for your own records.
’éĪ No residence deposit required upon
application.

’éĪ

Send your application to:
Student Enrolment Centre
Auckland Park Kingsway Campus
University of Johannesburg
PO Box 524
Auckland Park
2006
NOTE: Payments to UJ
must only be made into a
UJ bank account.
If approached to be assisted for a fee
to gain access to UJ, please decline the
offer and immediately inform
the University thereof.
* Please note: Fees and deposits are subject to change.

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

NATIONAL & INTERNATIONAL APPLICANTS
How to determine your Admission Point Score (APS)
An Admission Point Score (APS), explained below, has been developed for the National Senior
Certificate (NSC) and the Independent Examinations Board (IEB) based on the Achievement
Rating of each subject. The total APS is the sum of the achievement ratings of the six school
subjects. Life Orientation is not counted in the calculation of the total APS.
Rules to be implemented with this development.

In order to determine the Admission Point Score (APS) the following principles need to be taken into consideration:
’éĪ Applicants with the following results, WAEC, Diplome or Exam DŌĆÖEtat, Certificado de Habilitscoes Literarias, Ensino Medio
and Baccalaureat should be linked with the Ordinary Level (O) Grades on UJ's Student database.
’éĪ Applicants with the following results, HIGCSE, NSSC (HL), AS Level, IB (SL) and KCSE should be linked to the South African
NSC (N) Grades on UJ's Student database.
’éĪ Applicants who have set for either A Level or IB (HL) should be linked to the (A) Grades on UJ's Student database.

10

A/A*

7

9

B

6

8
7

7 (80-100%)

A

6

6 (70-79%)

B

5

5 (60-69%)

C

C

5

1

A/A* (7)

D

4

7

A

A

2

B (6)

E

3

6

B

B

3

A/A* (9-7)

C (5)

2

5

4

B (6-5)

D (4)

1

C (4)

E (3)

4

4 (50-59%)

D

C

3

3 (40-49%)

E

D

2

2 (30-39%)

F

E

1

1 (0-29%)

G

F

A

C

AHSD

Bacca┬Ł
laureate

CHL/EM

Diplome/
Exam DŌĆÖEtat

KCSE

WAEC

IB (SL)

IB (HL)

A LEVELS

AS LEVELS

HIGCSE/
NSSC (HL)

IGCSE/
NSSC (OL)

INTERNATIONAL
SC SG
(M-SCORE)

SC HG
(M-SCORE)

NSC
(IEB/SACAI
/ISC)

APS

NATIONAL

A
B
80-100%

16-20

16-20

C
D

4

B

D

70-79%

14-15

14-15

3

C

E

50-69%

10-13

10-13

D/E (3)

2

D/E

F

30-49%

8-9

8-9

F/G (2-1)

1

F/G

G

0-29%

0-7

0-7

		
ABBREVIATIONS
NSC National Senior Certificate (completed Grade 12 in and after 2008)
SC HG Senior Certificate Higher Grade (completed Grade 12 before 2008)
SC SG Senior Certificate Standard Grade (completed Grade 12 before 2008)
IEB Independent Examination Board
ISC International Secondary Certificate
SACAI South African Comprehensive Assessment Institute
HIGCSE Higher International General Certificate of Secondary Education
IGCSE International General Certificate of Secondary Education
NSSC(HL) Namibia Senior Secondary Certificate (Higher Level)
NSSC(OL) Namibia Senior Secondary Certificate (Ordinary Level ŌĆō Cambridge)
AS Advanced Subsidiary Level (Cambridge)
A Level Advanced Level (Cambridge)
IB(HL) International Baccalaureate Schools (Higher Levels)
IB(SL) International Baccalaureate Schools (Standard Levels)
WAEC West African Examination Council
KCSE Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education
Diplome/Exam DŌĆÖEtat Dipl├┤me/Examen dŌĆÖEtat Dipl├┤me dŌĆÖEtat or/ou dŌĆÖ├®tudes du cycle secondaire
CHL/EM Certificado de Habilitacoes Literarias (Mozambique) / Ensino Medio (Angola)
Baccalaureate Gabonese School Leaving
AHSD American High School Diploma

Points are awarded for the six symbols on your Grade 11 or Grade 12 report. See example below.
School Subject

Marks

APS

First language (language of teaching and learning)

65%

5

Additional recognised language

71%

6

Mathematics or Mathematical Literacy

61%

5

Accounting

68%

5

History

81%

7

Geography

86%

Total

7
35

* Life Orientation is not counted in the calculation of the total APS.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

15

16

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS

Admission for all applicants is subject to the
faculty qualifications admission point score
requirements, subject combination and the
University admissions policy. Registration of
admitted international applicants is subject to
compliance requirements as stipulated by the
Immigration Act No.13 of 2002, the regulations
made thereunder and the UniversityŌĆÖs policy.

English Proficiency Requirement

Application

Only the following will be accepted: UJELP and
IELTS at an overall score of 6 and TOEFL at an
average score of 80 -104 for undergraduate
programmes. Alternatively, you may elect to
write the University of Johannesburg English
Language Programme Test (UJELP). Should you
choose to write the University of Johannesburg
English Language Programme Test (UJELP),
contact +27 (0)11 559 4265 or
mmasango@uj.ac.za or ujelp1@uj.ac.za.

Application documentation for international
applicants:
’éĪ Final Grade 11 results, if currently in Grade
12 and pursuing a South African NSC or IEB
curriculum, or
’éĪ Final School Leaving results
’éĪ Valid Passport or Asylum Seeker Permit
or Refugee Permit or National Identity
Document or Permanent Residence
certificate or ID.
’éĪ For calculation of admission point scores
refer to the table on page 15.
To enrol for a degree programme in South
Africa, applicants with international school
leaving results are required to qualify for any
type of Matriculation Exemption from the
Matriculation Board (USAf ) for admission into
undergraduate degree studies. For further
information on the application process for
Matriculation Exemption visit the website
www.mb.usaf.ac.za or contact the UJ Division
of Global Engagement at +27 (0)11 559 4399.
Degree seeking applicants with the American
High School Diploma are required to submit
their SAT statement with Reading and Writing
at a score of 610 and Mathematics at a score of
530 or a letter of admission from a recognised
American university as part of their application
for Matriculation Exemption.
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

Prospective students are required to provide
proof of English Proficiency where English was
not used as a medium of instruction, learning
or teaching. The University accepts appropriate
proof of English proficiency certificates from:
IELTS, TOEFL, and UJELP.

Compulsory Study Visa
All accepted international applicants (passport
holders) are required by law, upon receipt of their
admission or acceptance letter, to immediately
apply for a study visa in line with the Immigration
Act No. 13 of 2002, Immigration Regulations.
For more information please contact the
University of Johannesburg, Division for
Internationalisation or visit the Republic of
South Africa Embassy, Consulate or Mission in
your home country or visit the Republic of South
Africa Department of Home Affairs website
www.dha.gov.za.

University fees
All accepted international applicants who are
privately or self-funded are required to pay their
fees prior to or during registration as follows;
(PTO)
17

TUITION AND
UJ RESIDENCE FEES
(ON CAMPUS RESIDENCE)
a) An upfront payment of 30% of tuition fees to
be paid at registration.
b) 35% of the tuition fees to be paid by 30 April.
c) 35% of the tuition fees to be paid by 31 July.
The University will offer a 5% discount should all
fees be paid at registration.
Fees generally increase between 10% and
15% per year. Please contact the University in
December to obtain the approved fees for the
2026 academic year.

International Levy 2026
Please note that the international levy is nonrefundable and expires on 31 December of
the year of registration. The international levy
for the year 2026 will be published prior to
registration.

How to pay
Payments to the University can be made in the
form of a foreign bank payment or electronic
transfer into the following account:
University of Johannesburg
FNB UJ Main Account
Account type: Cheque
Account number: 626 158 73280
Branch name: FNB Client Services
Branch code: 210-554
Swift code: FIRNZ AJJ
International applicants making payments at
First National Bank (FNB) in South Africa should
make use of the following banking details:
18

FNB UJ Main Account
Account type: Cheque
Account number: 626 158 73280
Branch name: FNB Client Services
Branch code: 210-554
All applicants must use their passport number
as a reference.
Applicants must provide the University with
proof of payment from the bank where the
transfer was made.

The UJ English Language Programme*
*UJELP is a Short Learning Programme for
international students at the University of
Johannesburg. It offers a platform for students
to learn and practise the English language, as
well as the academic, social and behavioural
skills appropriate for academia.
Placement Tests (PT)
Students registering for UJELP must complete
a Placement Test focusing on their competence
in Grammar and Vocabulary, Listening, Writing
and Oral presentation. This Placement Test may
be completed outside of South Africa ŌĆō Phase 1
(online) or at UJ Phase 2 (on-site), to enable
students to obtain their English proficiency
results before registration or for visa application
purposes (outside of South Africa).
By using the proficiency levels of the Common
European Framework of Reference (CEFR) for
languages, students are placed in the following
groups: Elementary (A1 and A2), Intermediate
(B1 and B2), and Advanced (C1 and C2).
Should you choose to write the UJELP
placement test, please contact +27 (0)11 559
2127 or ujelp1@uj.ac.za for further information
on payment of fees and mode of offering.
UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CONTACT DETAILS FOR
INTERNATIONAL APPLICANTS

ADMISSIONS OFFICERS:
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
Auckland Park Kingsway Campus (APK)
Mrs Mampou Ngqumshe
Tel no: +27 (0)11 559 4517
mampoum@uj.ac.za
Doornfontein Campus (DFC)
Mr Thabang Mothebe
Tel no: +27 (0)11 559 6510
thabangm@uj.ac.za
Auckland Park Bunting Road Campus (APB)
and Soweto Campus (SWC)
Ms Palesa Makwela
Tel no: +27 (0)11 559 1027 or
+27 (0)11 559 5014
pmakwela@uj.ac.za

International Student Welfare
and Academic Liaison Officer
Ms Shantelle Sass
Tel no: +27 (0)11 559 7780
ssass@uj.ac.za

Physical Address
University of Johannesburg
International House
Madibeng Building
Corner of Kingsway and University Road
Auckland Park
Johannesburg
South Africa
For more information visit www.uj.ac.za or
the Division of Global Engagement home
page: https://www.uj.ac.za/about/globalengagement/.
19

Campuses
The University of Johannesburg has four
campuses, namely the Auckland Park Bunting
Road (APB), Auckland Park Kingsway (APK),
Doornfontein (DFC) and Soweto (SWC)
Campuses. Each one has a unique identity
and history, and we endeavour to deliver
high quality education and services to all our
students on all four campuses. You will attend
classes at the campus where the qualification
you are registered for is offered. If you are
enrolling for a qualification that is offered at
various sites of delivery, you will attend classes
at the campus where you have been accepted
for enrolment.

Auckland Park Bunting Road Campus

Languages of instruction
The University of Johannesburg is a
multilingual institution and promotes the
preferred languages of the province of
Gauteng, namely English, Sesotho sa Leboa,
Afrikaans and isiZulu. The language of
instruction in all programmes is English.

Psychological Services and
Career Development (PsyCaD)

Doornfontein Campus
Auckland Park Kingsway Campus

ŌĆŗPsyCaD is present on all four campuses and
provides a variety of services to students,
staff and external clients at UJ. These include
counselling, career guidance and assessments.
Information pertaining to the different services
is detailed below.
Career Services Unit
The Career Services Unit offers a range of career
development (and related life planning skills)
services to our current students and graduates.
The Unit strives to actively and meaningfully
engage with prospective and enrolled students,
alumni, the various faculties, as well as the
employer community.

Soweto Campus

PsyCaD, with offices across all four UJ campuses,
offers the following services to all its clients:
’éĪ Career assessments
’éĪ Career counselling
’éĪ Advisory and walk-in services
’éĪ Practical skills for becoming a part of the
20

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Campus Life

working world, such as CV writing, job
hunting, how to prepare for job interviews
and much more!
’éĪ Workplace readiness workshops
’éĪ Career Resource Centres where students may
access a variety of printed and electronic
career and company information resources.
’éĪ Graduate Recruitment Programme that is
well supported by a variety of top national
and international companies. View the
programme on YourCareer portal and register
to attend company talks and employer
showcases all year round!
Please contact UJ PsyCaD Career Services
for more details or an appointment:
011 559 3333
Follow us! www.uj.ac.za/psycad
psycadinfo@uj.ac.za
@UJCareerService
facebook.com/PsyCaDCareerServices
ŌĆŗPsychological Services
Psychological Services essentially focuses
on different forms of counselling, including
individual therapy, couples therapy, group
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

therapy and psycho-education. There is also an
advisory (walk-in) service where students can
receive immediate brief support and be directed
to the appropriate resources/service. Support
groups are available on request. The aim of
these services is to provide students with the
tools to improve their personal and academic
functioning. This process can be beneficial
towards personal growth and development.
Please contact PsyCaD on 011 559 3324 for
more details or for an appointment.
The PsyCaD crisis line is a 24-hour service
offered to UJ students who are in need of
immediate support and guidance in a crisis.
When students have to cope with a crisis, they
can contact a counsellor for assistance on 082
054 1137. The crisis line counsellor can offer
immediate emotional assistance, as well as
practical referral information.
21

Assessment Services
The Assessment Team provides assessment
services to UJ students and staff, as well
as external clients. With valid, reliable,
and scientifically sound assessment tools,
assessment services are provided in a broad
range of assessment areas.
The services offered by the Assessment Team
include:
’éĪ Career Counselling Assessments
’éĪ Career Transition Assessments
’éĪ Psycho-educational Assessments
’éĪ Subject Choice Assessments
’éĪ Recruitment and Selection Assessments
’éĪ Learning Styles Assessments
’éĪ Personality for Self-Insight and Team Building

state of the art assistive technology and
specialised software
’éĪ Assistance with appropriate residence
placement
’éĪ Assistance with bursary application
Prospective students are encouraged to contact
the Disability Unit for more information.
Email: disabilityunit@uj.ac.za
Tel: 011 559 3745

Library and Information Centre (LIC)

To learn more about PsyCaD Assessments, visit
our dedicated website and the LinkedIn page
UJ PsyCaD Assessment Services
(https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/
urn:li:activity:6412236717578944512)
Website: http://www.uj.ac.za/PsyCaD

The libraries on all our campuses support the
academic and research needs of students. They
ensure access to books, periodicals, electronic
databases and the Internet. Knowledgeable
staff members are available to train students in
the use of all information sources. For more
information, visit the library web page at
http://www.uj.ac.za/EN/Library/Pages/┬Łdefault.
aspx. The web page also gives access to the
library catalogue (uLink) and the
electronic databases.

Disability Unit

Putting learning in your hands

The Disability Unit provides reasonable
accommodation with regards to academic and
technological support required by students
with disabilities. The following are some of the
services offered to students with disabilities:
’éĪ Collaboration between the relevant faculty
and the student to ensure the specialised
support required by the student
’éĪ Support with access related issues and
campus orientation
’éĪ Reasonable accommodation support for tests
and examinations
’éĪ The provision of accessible learning material
and aids, e.g. electronic, braille,
and enlargements
’éĪ Computer training and technological support
with regards to assistive devices
’éĪ Psycho-social support for students with
Disabilities
’éĪ A specialised work environment and
computer laboratories equipped with

The University introduced handheld devices
into first-year classrooms in 2014, in a bid
to connect the young minds with the world
of e-knowledge they are growing into, and
transform their ability to contribute and
compete globally. You will use your handheld
device in a multitude of ways: to manage your
modules and timetables, review your module
learning guides, check your marks, access
e-books and other study and administrative
requirements. Providing information and
engagement, these devices will bring a new
and powerful immediacy, collaboration and
ease of access to studies.

22

Computer laboratories
and Wi-Fi hotspots
Various computer laboratories and easy access
to our Wi-Fi hotspots give students access to
educational software, the World Wide Web
and email.
UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

UJ Arts & Culture

UJ Arts & Culture is a distinguished division within the Faculty of Art, Design & Architecture
(FADA) at the University of Johannesburg. Within this division, there is a profound commitment
to curating and presenting exceptional artistic programmes that seamlessly align with the
UniversityŌĆÖs overarching vision. This vision aspires for UJ to be a globally recognised institution
deeply rooted in Africa and actively contributing to the shaping of our shared future.
This unwavering commitment spans across
all four UJ campuses, offering an extensive
array of opportunities for students, faculty
members, alumni, and the broader community
to engage with both emerging and established
Pan-African and international artists. These
engagements encompass a wide spectrum of
artistic disciplines, that facilitates a rich and
diverse cultural experience for all participants.
One of our most prized assets is the globally
renowned UJ Choir, an institution that not only
elevates the standards of musical excellence
within our university but also significantly
enriches the overall student experience. Its
illustrious track-record is testament to its
invaluable contribution to UJŌĆÖs cultural profile.
Within our division, you will also discover the UJ
Arts Academy, a hub for a comprehensive range
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

of extracurricular programmes meticulously
designed to enhance the student experience.
These programmes include theatre productions,
poetry programmes, dramatic arts, and dance
productions. These initiatives not only nurture
creative talent but also foster personal growth
and development.
We invite all registered UJ students to
participate in auditions for both the UJ Choir
and the UJ Arts Academy. Audition dates are
annually announced via the UJ Arts & Culture
and UJ Choir social media platforms.
At UJ Arts & Culture, our dedication to shaping
the future through the transformative power
of the arts remains steadfast. We warmly invite
you to join us on this illustrious journey where
creativity flourishes, inspiration abounds, and
culture plays an integral role in defining the
legacy of the University of Johannesburg.
23

Centre for Student Health and Wellness
The University has four centers, one on each
campus. Professional nurses provide services
five days a week at each Centre, while sessional
doctors visit once weekly for serious problems
referred by Professional nurses. The Centre
primarily offers primary health care to students,
focusing on acute illnesses, acne treatment,
mental health examinations and management,
and referrals to PsyCaD for counseling. Sexual
reproductive health encompasses contraception
distribution, STI screening and management,
cervical cancer screening (Pap smear), pregnancy
testing, and referral to safe abortion facilities. One
of the essential services provided by the Centre
is health promotion, which is done through
campaigns, health expos, and on UJfm.
The center shares premises with an
occupational health clinic for employees.
Primary healthcare clinicians provide weekly
family planning services for staff members, and
emergency medical care when needed.

Our wellness section is led by a Wellness
Specialist and supported by HIV counselors and
Peer educators. HIV counseling and testing are
provided, as well as the distribution of female
and male condoms, lubricants, and dental
dams. It includes a support group for students
who have tested positive for HIV and are on the
antiretroviral treatment program to provide
care and support. The Wellness team is heavily
involved in initiatives (cancer awareness, SRH,
mental health, LGTBQI+ safe zone awareness)
and uses different social media platforms.
Regular residential visits are conducted to
educate students about sexual reproductive
health and risky behaviors and lifestyles
affecting their health.
Contact details: APB: 011 559 1238
APK: 011 559 3837 / SWC: 011 559 5571
DFC: 011 559 6544

Centre for Academic Technologies (CAT)
Centre for Academic Technologies (CAT)
The Centre for Academic Technologies (CAT)
supports you in preparing for the online learning
environment. Via our online portal, uLink, you
can access all the support information you
require during your journey as a student at UJ.
By accessing uLink (student portal), you will also
be able to access your Learning Management
System; this is where you will find all your
learning material and activities for the modules
you are registered for. Our team at CAT also offers
support on basic computer skills and Microsoft
training, and we will invite you to these sessions.
For help, please email us at uhelp@uj.ac.za or
call us on 011 559 3580. It is important to note
that if you need any help (mental well-being,
stress, anxiety, study skills, writing, technology
support), you can write to our team at advising@
uj.ac.za. The CAT team is here to help you on your
personal and academic journey at UJ.

UJ Sport
University of Johannesburg Sport aim to
develop the holistic student-athlete and
sustain young talent by providing the ultimate
student-experience, quality university sport
participation opportunities and the best
coaching personnel.
The University of Johannesburg (UJ) Gymnasia
are premier fitness centres with state-of-the-art
24

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

equipment. The gyms have a team of
experienced instructors who ensure that
members receive the best fitness results. The
Gymnasia contribute to enhancing the quality
of lives of the University community. The Gym
services are catered to UJ students, staff and
alumni of the University.
The Gymnasia play an important role in helping
staff and students stay active and improve
their physical and mental health as well as
their overall wellbeing. As we continue to
navigate the COVID-19 challenges as well as its
associated social isolation, stress, anxiety, and
economic impacts, we need physical activity
more than ever.
UJ Sport has twelve (12) sporting codes for both
high performance and competitive teams. UJ
students and non-student athletes outside UJ
can represent the University as student-athletes
and club members.
The sports clubs include; Athletics, Basketball,
Cricket, e-Sport, Football, Hockey, Netball,
Rowing, Rugby Squash, Sport for Students with
Disabilities and Chess. https://www.uj.ac.za/sport/

Protection Services
Protection Services personnel are on duty 24
hours a day to ensure the safety and welfare
of students, staff and visitors to the campuses
and to control traffic and parking. They are
also responsible for emergency assistance, fire
warnings and first aid on campuses. For help,
call us on 011 559 2555.
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

Student Centres
Equipped with meeting places, restaurants,
cafeterias, recreational facilities and even shops
for added convenience, our campuses are like
independent villages in the city. Some of our
student centres house banks, bookshops, medical
doctors, hairdressers, gift shops, PostNet and
a supermarket. You will also never have to run
on an empty stomach as all the campuses have
cafeterias or coffee shops. After all, we know that
sharing a sandwich with someone special just
may be a life-changing experience!

Student Accommodation
A residence is a community in which one meets a
range of diverse students and may forge life-long
friendships. In order to experience university
life to its fullest, why not reside on campus? The
University of Johannesburg offers students a
wide selection of comfortable accommodation,
which ranges from various types of residences
to fully equipped apartments. Staying in a
University of Johannesburg residence is an
extension of your education, and you can benefit
from all facilities and services, which are also
sources of social enrichment, such as study
centres, campus libraries, cafeterias, restaurants
and sports facilities within easy walking distance
of the lecture halls, life skills and peer tutoring
programmes. Like-minded students from all over
the country, who could all become your friends,
will surround you. Apart from our academic
programme, we offer extramural activities,
25

such as the first year concert, debate, poetry
sessions, indigenous games, a choir festival,
a play festival, community service, and many
socially engaging activities to create a vibrant
residence life.
If you would like to apply to stay on campus,
please submit an online Residence Application.
Applications must reach the University by 31
October. You may only stay on the campus
where you attend your studies. An amount of
R1 220 residence deposit will automatically be
charged to the student's account once he/she
registers online.
Please note the academic admission to
the University does not ensure automatic
admission to a residence. The University will
inform you via email, SMS or in writing, of the
outcome of your residence application.

Privately owned student accommodation
The University of Johannesburg has private
accredited off-campus accommodation
available should your application for a
UJ residence not be successful. For more
information on these facilities, please contact
the Privately Owned Student Accommodation
(POSA) Office situated on Auckland Park
Bunting Road Campus on 011 559 1040.
26

Residence Enquiries
Auckland Park Bunting Road Campus (APB)
LadiesŌĆÖ Residences: 011 559 1566
MenŌĆÖs Residences: 011 559 1566
Auckland Park Kingsway Campus (APK)
LadiesŌĆÖ Residences: 011 559 2092
MenŌĆÖs Residences: 011 559 3022
Doornfontein Campus (DFC)
LadiesŌĆÖ Residences: 011 559 6552
MenŌĆÖs Residences: 011 559 6552
Soweto Campus (SWC)
LadiesŌĆÖ Residences: 011 559 5015
MenŌĆÖs Residences: 011 559 5015

Day Houses
For purposes of bringing students together,
providing educational opportunities beyond
the classroom, recreational activities and
life skills the University of Johannesburg
established day houses as a support structure
for students who are not living in UJ residences.
The main objective of day houses is to create a
platform that enhances academic excellence,
the celebration diversity within the community,
and holistic development of students.
Members of day houses enjoy all benefits
that are enjoyed by residence students. Each
day house has its own unique culture. You are
welcome to join a day house of your choice.
UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Student Finance

BURSARIES
Merit bursaries
Academic merit bursaries are awarded annually
on the grounds of exceptional academic
achievement. This is determined according
to marks obtained in the six best subjects
(excluding LO) on your senior certificate. Your
final senior certificate will determine your first
year bursary. Bursaries for second and third
year studies will be awarded according to the
average obtained in the June and December
University examinations.
Orange Carpet
The Orange Carpet rewards programme is a
UJ initiative to further recognise top achievers.
The objective of the campaign is to allow topperforming learners early conditional admission
to the University as well as special benefits. To
qualify for these benefits, a learner must obtain
at least an Admission Point Score (APS) of 37
and above with a Level 6 or higher in all subjects
(excluding LO) in either their final Grade 11
or final Grade 12 results. Final acceptance, for
applicants conditionally admitted based on
their final Grade 11 results, will be dependent
on the learner maintaining these results in their
final Grade 12 results.
Final admission to the Orange Carpet initiative
for applicants writing final Grade 12 other than
the NSC or IEB, will be based on the discretion
of the relevant faculty.
This initiative begins from February and closes
with all undergraduate programmes on
31 October. Submit your application without
delay or call Student Marketing for any
enquiries: 011 559 6680.
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

APS (Admission Point Score)

Bursary Value*

35-36

30%

37-39

50%

40-41

75%

42

100%

Higher than 42

100% + R5 485

* Please note:
Bursary values are based on a specific curriculumŌĆÖs tuition fees.
Orange Carpet admitted status is allocated to a top achiever
applicant who has a total APS of 37 calculated as follows:
ŌĆō exclude Life Orientation;
ŌĆō achieve a minimum of 70% in the six best subjects;
ŌĆō subjects used to calculate the total APS must include the required
programme subjects.

Only prospective students who are entering for
their first undergraduate studies are eligible for
the Orange Carpet initiative. Prospective students
who have already undertaken studies at UJ or
elsewhere are not eligible for this initiative.
UJ Jenius Club
After first year registration, Orange Carpet
members will become UJenius club members.
To join or to keep UJenius Club membership
for the 2nd, 3rd and final year of your
undergraduate study, students need to have
achieved a year average of 75% in the preceding
year, on a full course load, and with no module
below 70%.
UJenius club members will qualify for the
following benefits:
’éĪ A UJenius Merit bursary.
’éĪ Library privileges that are the same as those
for postgraduate students.
’éĪ Exclusive invitation to prestigious events.
’éĪ Students with a consistent UJenius Club
membership for a period of three years
will be given preference for ŌĆśstudy abroadŌĆÖ
programmes.
27

Leadership bursary
The President, Vice-President, Secretary or
Treasurer of a secondary school body who enrols
at the University will receive a bursary of R1 650.
Culture and sports bursaries
The University offers many cultural activities and
sport opportunities, as well as a large number
of bursaries in these fields. Sport bursaries are
awarded for achievement at provincial or a higher
level. Applications for sports bursaries must be
submitted on the prescribed bursary application
form obtainable from the Sports Bureau. Closing
date for applications is 30 September.
Cultural Bursaries are awarded to members of
the UJ Arts & Culture groups.
Enquiries: Culture bursaries: 011 559 2034 or
Sports bursaries: 011 559 2252

Loans
National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS)
Study grants vary according to family income
and cover the actual costs of studies for
accepted undergraduate students. Applications
for NSFAS loans must be submitted on the
prescribed loan application form obtainable
from the Division of Bursaries and Loans.
Closing date for NSFAS applications:
28 November 2025 for 2026 registration.
Website: www.uj.ac.za/nsfas
Enquiries:
Auckland Park Bunting Road Campus
011 559 1193 / 1250 / 1173 / 1594
Auckland Park Kingsway Campus
011 559 3642 / 3906 / 4035 / 3768 / 3575
Doornfontein Campus
011 559 6195 / 6412 / 6063
Soweto Campus
011 559 5507 / 5508
Email: nsfas@uj.ac.za

Fundi (Edu-Loan)
Study loans are available to registered students.
Enquiries: Fundi Call Centre
086 055 5544
28

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

FACULTY
CONTACT DETAILS
Faculty of Art, Design
and Architecture
Telephone: 011 559 1098
Email: web-fada@uj.ac.za

College of Business
and Economics
APK
Telephone: 011 559 2475
or 011 559 2492 or 011 559 3861
Email: AskCBE@uj.ac.za or lnuku@uj.ac.za
or bobbyk@uj.ac.za
APB
Telephone: 011 559 1348 or 011 559 1474
Email: oupat@uj.ac.za
SWC
Telephone: 011 559 5559
or 011 559 5709
Email: matebogom@uj.ac.za

Faculty of Education
Telephone: 011 559 3251 (APK)
011 559 5562 (SWC)
Email: eduqueries@uj.ac.za

Faculty of Engineering and
the Built Environment
APK
Telephone: 011 559 3565
Email: web-engineering@uj.ac.za
DFC
Telephone: 011 559 6811
Email: web-engineering@uj.ac.za

Faculty of Health Sciences
Telephone: 011 559 6925
Email: web-healthscience@uj.ac.za

Faculty of Humanities
Telephone: 011 559 2197
Email: humanitiesreceph@uj.ac.za

Faculty of Law
Telephone: 011 559 2141 or 011 559 2775
Email: thokozilem@uj.ac.za

Faculty of Science
Telephone: 011 559 4562 or 011 559 6349
Email: web-science@uj.ac.za
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

29

With the rise of the Internet and the strong presence of social media, we have
become an interconnected society in which people from different cultures and
beliefs can share ideas instantly. Therefore, it is important to us to incorporate
the global art, design and architecture community into what and how we teach.

CAMPUS

CAREER

Subject 3

Subject 2

Subject 1

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

We, the hashtag generation.

Additional
Recognised Language

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

At the Faculty of Art, Design
and Architecture (FADA), we believe
Languages
that art, architecture and design can make this world a better
place. We are deeply invested in ensuring that our students learn
to be proactive about finding and creating situations where they
can put their knowledge, skills and values into practice.

Creativity is embracing each otherŌĆÖs differences.
FADA houses all the creative disciplines under one roof and with this
we maintain a strong focus on sustainability and relevance; and engage
actively with the dynamism, creativity and diversity of Johannesburg
and the rest of the world. With nine academic departments, namely the
Department of Architecture, the Graduate School of Architecture (GSA),
the Department of Fashion Design, the Department of Graphic Design,
the Department of Industrial Design, the Department of Interior Design,
the Department of Jewellery Design and Manufacture, the Department
of Multimedia, and the Department of Visual Art, we expand each of these
fields beyond their traditional boundaries through internal and external
collaborations. We also have two research centres: Visual Identities in Art
and Design (VIAD), and the NRF South African Research Chair (SARChI) in
South African Art and Visual Culture.
The Faculty is also home to UJ Arts & Culture, based on the Auckland Park
Kingsway Campus (with cultural offices on the Doornfontein and Soweto
Campuses), which runs two professional theatres and the UJ Art Gallery,
and offers a dynamic range of public-facing performing and visual arts
programmes for students and professionals.
Always on top of change.
FADA works closely with the industry to ensure that its professional
programmes remain relevant and competitive. Our graduates are employed
nationally and internationally in diverse areas of the industry, or work
as freelance designers, architects or independent artists. Whatever their
preference, they have been thoroughly prepared as professionals in
the highly competitive fields of art, design and architecture through
creative and entrepreneurial development, which are key elements in the
programmes offered.

Disclaimer: Due to limited space,
fulfilling all the minimum admission
requirements does not guarantee
acceptance into a programme.
30

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Art, Design
and Architecture
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

31

CAMPUS

CAREER

Technical Mathematics **

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

English *

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

DEGREE PROGRAMMES

Not accepted

Communication Designers are creative thinkers
and problem solvers who use a range of design
methods, processes and techniques to create
professional communication designs, such as
posters, books, magazines, corporate identity
programmes, packaging and web sites, both
individually and as members of teams.

Not accepted

This degree prepares students for careers in
the design, film, broadcast and advertising
industries as: interaction designers, user
experience designers, user interface designers,
service designers, music video designers,
multimedia animators, motion graphics
designers, information designers, video editors,
video compositors, digital photographers,
digital media consultants and or creative
directors.

APB

Industrial Designers improve the aesthetics,
ergonomics and functionality of a broad range of
products from bespoke/one-off furniture items to
mass produced products such as
kitchen appliances and cellphones.

APB

APB

Not accepted

Architectural professionals are involved in
shaping our built environment, from the simple
construction of low-cost housing projects to
the most sophisticated technology employed
in the erection of skyscrapers. Architectural
professionals are thus employed in the design,
technological resolution and management
of the design and construction process of
buildings.

Not accepted

Not accepted

5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

B ARCHITECTURE

B8BA3Q

Bachelor Degree (3 years)

32

APB

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
5 (60%+)

3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
4 (50%+)

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

25 with Mathematics OR
26 with Mathematical Literacy
25 with Mathematics OR
26 with Mathematical Literacy
25 with Mathematics OR
26 with Mathematical Literacy

BA (INDUSTRIAL
DESIGN)

B8DM3Q

BA (DIGITAL
MEDIA DESIGN)

B8ID1Q

BA
(COMMUNICATION
DESIGN)

B8CD2Q

BA Degree (3 years)

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS
APB

Visual Art graduates find work in diverse fields of
the visual arts industries. In addition to being a
professional artist, graduates could work, in art
education and training, art gallery and museum
curating and management, art consulting, arts
writing, art criticism, research and journalism,
printmaking and print studio management, paper
making and paper production design, community
and arts project management, visual
events management.

APB

A degree in fashion design prepares graduates
for various career possibilities in the fastpaced fashion industry. Amongst other, these
include being a fashion designer, a fashion
entrepreneur, a pattern engineer, a fashion
buyer a fashion stylist.

APB

CAREER

Not accepted

Technical Mathematics **
Not accepted

Interior Designers engage with a range of
interior spaces to create innovative spatial
solutions with a thorough knowledge of
building technology, materials and human
environment needs.

3 (40%+)

Mathematical Literacy
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
4 (50%+)

Mathematics
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
3 (40%+)

English *
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

Minimum APS

Qualification Code
B8BA6Q

25 with Mathematics OR
26 with Mathematical Literacy
25 with Mathematics OR
26 with Mathematical Literacy
25 with Maths / Tech Maths OR
26 with Mathematical Literacy

BA
(VISUAL ART) Ō£¬

B8FD1Q

BA (FASHION
DESIGN)

B8BA7Q

PROGRAMME
BA (INTERIOR
DESIGN)

Ō£¬ The requirement for maths or maths literacy as a matric subject for international admission into the BA in Visual Art
UG degree may be exempt ŌĆō provided the university entrance requirements and APS score remain intact and such
admission is compliant with all UG Degree requirements.
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

33

JEWELLERY
DESIGN AND
MANUFACTURE

34
Fashion Production Graduates can be involved
in the business, manufacturing, retail and
quality assurance aspects of the clothing
industry.
APB

Jewellery Designers and Manufacturers
process designs and concepts in high
end commercial and contemporary
commercial manufacture processes.

APB

Diploma (3 years)

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS

CAREER

Technical Mathematics **

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

English *

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Image: Black Chronicles IV (Curated by Ren├®e Mussai of Autograph ABP,
London), FADA Gallery, 2018, Photo by UJ Photographic Services.

APB

5 (60%+)

Not accepted

4 (50%+)

5 (60%+)

25 with Maths OR
26 with Tech Maths

Not accepted

4 (50%+)

3 (40%+)

5 (60%+)

22 with Maths OR
23 with Maths Lit

D8AT1Q

Architectural Practitioners design simple
buildings and produce technological details.

5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)

3 (40%+)

5 (60%+)

20 with Maths OR 21 with Maths Lit
OR 22 with Tech Maths

FASHION
PRODUCTION
D8FP1Q

ARCHITECTURE

D8JD1Q

DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES

NATIONAL CERTIFICATE (VOCATIONAL) ADMISSION (NCV)
Applicants with a NCV will only be considered for admission into the degree and diploma
programmes with the following programme-specific requirements:
For admission to a Degree the following minimum criteria apply:
’éĪ A NCV (level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.
’éĪ An achievement of at least 70% for 5 of the 7 subjects ŌĆō fundamental and vocational categories.
’éĪ An achievement of at least 70% in English as Language of Teaching and Learning/First Additional
Language, and one additional language.
’éĪ An achievement of at least 70% in Mathematics ŌĆō taken as a fundamental subject.
For admission to a Diploma the following minimum criteria apply:
’éĪ A NCV (level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.
’éĪ An achievement of at least 60% for 5 of the 7 subjects ŌĆō fundamental and vocational categories.
’éĪ An achievement of at least 60% in English as Language of Teaching and Learning/First Additional
Language, and one additional language.
’éĪ An achievement of at least 60% in Mathematics or 70% in Mathematics Literacy ŌĆō taken as a
fundamental subject.
Disclaimer: Meeting the FacultyŌĆÖs minimum requirements for a particular programme does
not necessarily guarantee admission to that programme due to space constraints.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

35

NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE FOR ADULTS (NASCA)
Background: NASCA allows learners with incomplete Senior Certificate credits, as well as adult learners
18 years and older, to complete their Senior Certificate.
1. An adult learner must register for and write subjects in the National Senior Certificate for Adults: A qualification at level 4
on the General and Further Education and Training Qualifications Sub-framework of the NQF as prescribed below in order
to satisfy the certification requirements set out in paragraph 13 of the Government Gazette, 2 September 2014,
NO 37965:
a. Register for and write an external examination in a minimum of two
(2) compulsory subjects to be selected from both (i) and (ii):
i. One language from Organising Field 4, Communication Studies and Language;
ii. Either Mathematics or Quantitative Literacy from Organising Field 10, Physical, Mathematical, Computer and
Life Sciences;
b.
Register for and write a minimum of two additional (2) subjects, selected from amongst the following:
i. An additional official language;
ii. Natural Sciences from Organising Field 10, Physical, Mathematical, Computer and Life Sciences;
iii. Information and Communication Technology from Organising Field 10, Physical, Mathematical,
Computer and Life Sciences;
iv.Human and Social Sciences from Organising Field 7, Human and Social Studies;
v. Economic and Management Sciences from Organising Field 3		
c. No endorsement is indicated on the certificate. NASCA is a certificate of competence per se.

Admission requirements for National Senior Certificate for Adults (NASCA)
National Senior Certificate for Adults (NASCA) candidates will only be considered for Diploma programmes.
Selection criteria:
a. Senate Discretionary Conditional Admission for applicants who have successfully completed the NASCA and who have
applied for admission to an Extended Diploma or Diploma in FADA provided that:
1. The applicant meets the following minimum subject requirements:
2. English
60%
APS 5
3. Maths
60%
APS 5 or
4. Maths Lit
70%
APS 6
5. The applicant complete a PsyCaD assessment; obtaining an unconditional recommendation; and
6. The relevant Director of School recommend the admission.
b. Applicants may also be required to write a placement/aptitude test to evaluate their learning potential for the relevant
programme/s.
c. Selection is based on academic merit and the availability of places and hence specific selection criteria may be applied
within the required Enrolment Management Plan as the University has a specific number of places available as approved
by the Department of Higher Education and Training for new undergraduate first year students.

AMENDED SENIOR CERTIFICATE (SC(a))
Background: The following learners will qualify for admission to the Amended Senior Certificate:
a. Adult learners who are 21 years and older who have:
1. A General Education and Training Certificate (GETC); or
2. A Grade 9 school report (or the old standard seven), stating that they have passed Grade 9 or Standard 7; or
3. A recognised equivalent qualification obtained at NQF Level which requires two official languages;
b. Adult learners who are 21 years and older with an incomplete Senior Certificate qualification;
c. Adult learners who are 21 years and older with an incomplete National Senior Certificate and whose School-Based
Assessment (SBA) validity has expired;
d. Only in exceptional cases, out of school youth, who are 18-21 years old and who could not complete their school education
due to circumstances beyond their control, as verified by the Head of Department in the Provincial Education Department.
To be awarded the Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a)) a learner has to complete six subjects and obtain the following
minimum results:
a. Pass three subjects at 40%, one of which must be an official language at Home Language level;
b. Pass two subjects at 30%, one of which must be an official language at First Additional or Home Language level;
c. Obtain a subminimum of 20% in the sixth subject.
No endorsement is indicated on the certificate as subjects might be a combination of NC (until 2007) and
NSC (from 2008) subjects.
36

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Images: Ronel Irvine (designer), Department of Graphic Design, Gold Campaign Winner, The Loeries Student Awards.

Admission requirements for the Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a)) applicants
in the Faculty of Art, Design and Architecture (FADA).
Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a)) candidates will only be considered for Diploma and BA Degree programmes.
Selection criteria:
a. Senate Discretionary Conditional Admission for candidates who have successfully completed the SC(a) and who have
applied for admission to a Diploma or BA Degree programme in FADA provided that:
1. The student meets the minimum APS and the minimum subject requirements per qualification; and
2. The relevant Head of School recommend the admission.
b. Applicants will be required to participate in programme-specific selection requirements, as determined by the Faculty
Board, approved by Senate and contained in the relevant Faculty Rules and Regulations.
c. Selection is based on academic merit and the availability of places and hence specific selection criteria may be applied
within the required Enrolment Management Plan as the University has a specific number of places available as approved
by the Department of Higher Education and Training for new undergraduate first year students.
Minimum APS and minimum subject requirements for SC(a) per qualification type:

*
**
Ō£¬

Programme

Minimum APS
English *

Mathematics

Mathematical
Literacy

Technical Mathematics **

Group A Subjects

Diploma in Architecture
(D8AT1Q)

25 with Maths or
26 with Tech Maths

5

4

Not accepted

5

Diploma in Fashion Production
(D8FP1Q)

22 with Maths or
23 with Maths Lit

5

3

4

Not accepted

Diploma in Jewellery Design and Manufacture
(D8JD1Q)

20 with Maths or
21 with Maths Lit or
22 with Tech Maths

5

3

4

5

B Arch (Architecture)
(B8BA3Q)

30

5

5

Not accepted

Not accepted

BA (Communication Design)
(B8CD2Q)

25 with Maths or
26 with Maths Lit

5

3

4

Not accepted

BA (Digital Media Design)
(B8DM3Q)

25 with Maths or
26 with Maths Lit

5

3

4

Not accepted

BA (Fashion Design)
(B8FD1Q)

25 with Maths or
26 with Maths Lit

5

4

5

Not accepted

BA (Industrial Design)
(B8ID1Q)

25 with Maths or
26 with Maths Lit

5

4

5

Not accepted

BA (Interior Design)
(B8BA6Q)

25 with Maths or
26 with Maths Lit

5

4

5

Not accepted

BA (Visual Art) Ō£¬
(B8BA7Q)

25 with Maths / Tech
Maths or
26 with Maths Lit

5

3

4

3

English, Home Language, First Additional Language
Technical Maths came into effect for FADA specific programmes in the above mentioned table for possible admission applications after 2021.
The requirement for maths or maths literacy as a matric subject for international admission into the BA in Visual Art UG degree may be exempt ŌĆō
provided the university entrance requirements and APS score remain intact and such admission is compliant with all UG Degree requirements.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

37

CAMPUS

CAREER

Subject 3

Subject 2

Subject 1

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

Additional
Recognised Language

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Languages

Disclaimer: Due to
limited space, fulfilling all
the minimum admission
requirements does not
guarantee acceptance
into a programme.

College of
Business and
Economics
38

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

The University of Johannesburg, College of Business and Economics develops
critical thinkers and problem solvers who address business, economic and
societal challenges. The College houses six schools and 13 departments with a
comprehensive range of qualifications varying from undergraduate diplomas
and degrees to postgraduate diplomas and doctoral degrees.
School of Accountancy
Department of Accountancy
Department of Commercial Accounting
School of Consumer Intelligence and Information Systems
Department of Applied Information Systems
Department of Information and Knowledge Management
Department of Marketing Management
School of Economics
Department of Economics and Econometrics
Public and Environmental Economics Research Centre
School of Management
Department of Business Management
Department of Finance and Investment Management
Department of Industrial Psychology and People Management
Department of Transport and Supply Chain Management
School of Public Management, Governance and Public Policy
Department of Public Management and Governance
School of Tourism and Hospitality
Tourism Management
Hospitality Management
Food and Beverage Operations
The College offers substantial and well-established programmes serving both the private
and public sector, contributing to UJŌĆÖs vision of promoting Pan-Africanism, 4IR and
sustainable development.
In order to be considered for selection for a programme, an applicant is required to comply
with the programmeŌĆÖs minimum admission criteria based on either the National Senior
Certificate (NSC), the National Certificate (Vocational) (NCV), National Senior Certificate for
Adults (NASCA) or Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a)).
Extended programmes will only consider new first-time entering candidates for admission,
these are candidates with no previous studies from a Higher Education Institution.
Due to ongoing programme reviews and the current HEQSF alignment process there
may be changes in diploma and degree programmes in terms of range and mix of
qualifications, curricula and admission requirements.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

39

CAMPUS

CAREER

Technical Mathematics

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

PROGRAMME

Qualification Code

Admission requirements for candidates with National Senior Certificate (NSC)

DEGREE PROGRAMMES

APK
APB

Human Resource Practitioners, HRM
Personnel Manager, HRM
Personnel Officer, Training Manager,
Recruitment and Selection Officer.

APK

Not
accepted
4 (50%+)

This degree serves the needs of
students who aspire to move into
leadership positions in the Hospitality
Industry i.e. General Manager,
Financial Manager amongst other
positions in the industry.

4 (50%+)

Not
accepted
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)
5 (60%+)
4 (50%+)

Entrepreneur, Travel Agent, Tour Guide,
Tour Operator, Event and Conference
Organiser, Public Relations, Marketing,
Leisure Activity Co-ordinator, Visa
Consultant, Researcher, Academia,
Teaching, Training and Lecturing,
Transportation, Car Rental Agent,
Development Consultant, Corporate
Consulting, National, Provincial
and Local Government Tourism
Departments and Agencies, Technical
Writer and Editor, Website Developer
and Manager, Travel Blogger, Sales
Co-ordinator and Manager.

APB

3 (40%+)

4 (50%+)

3 (40%+)

26 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
28 with Mathematical Literacy
28 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
28 with Mathematical Literacy

B34HNQ

Chartered Accountant ŌĆō CA (SA).

Graduates may register as HR
Practitioners with the South African
Board of People Practices (SABPP) to
encourage regulated, standardised
HR practices.
5 (60%+)

TOURISM DEVELOPMENT
AND MANAGEMENT

33

26 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
28 with Mathematical Literacy

HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT

B34HRQ

HOSPITALITY
MANAGEMENT

B34TDQ

ACCOUNTING (CA)

B34CAQ

Bachelor Degrees (3 years)

UJ Accountancy students boast continuous
outstanding results in professional examinations.
40

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS

CAREER

Technical Mathematics

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Admission requirements for candidates with National Senior Certificate (NSC)

Not
accepted

Financial Manager, Accountant,
Internal Auditor, Tax Consultant.

4 (50%+)

Training Manager, HRD Manager,
Employment Relations Manager,
Product Development Manager,
Branch Manager, General Manager,
Change Facilitator, Management
Consultant, Entrepreneur,
Business Innovator.

Not
accepted

Economist, Econometrician,
Economic Analyst, Forecaster,
Economic Planner.

4 (50%+)

Business Owner, Marketing
Manager, Manager,
Consultant, Business Manager,
Financial Manager.

Not
accepted

Financial Manager, Stockbroker,
Accountant, Financial Consultant,
Investment Advisor.

APK

Specialist HR Practitioners dealing
with the problems or challenges
arising from employeesŌĆÖ relationship
within the work environment.

APK

APK / SWC

3 (40%+)

Public Managers in State
Departments, Provincial Departments
and Municipalities, Public, Private and
NGO Sector, Administrative
and Managerial Positions.

4 (50%+)

5 (60%+)

3 (40%+)

5 (60%+)

26 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
28 with Mathematical Literacy

PUBLIC MANAGEMENT
AND GOVERNANCE

B34PKQ / B34PSQ

Bachelor of Arts Degree (3 years)

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

APK
SWC
APK
APK

Not
accepted
Not accepted
Not
accepted
Not
accepted
Not
accepted
5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

28

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

28

26 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
28 with Mathematical Literacy

INDUSTRIAL
PSYCHOLOGY

B34A5Q

FINANCE

B34BMQ

ENTREPRENEURIAL
MANAGEMENT

B3N14Q

ECONOMICS AND
ECONOMETRICS

26

B1CEMQ

BUSINESS
MANAGEMENT

28

B34INQ

ACCOUNTING

B34F5Q

Bachelor of Commerce Degree (3 years)

41

CAREER

4 (50%+)

IT Project Manager, Business Analyst,
IT Manager, Business Intelligence
Expert, Chief Information Officer,
Database Administrator, Systems
Analyst, IT Consultant.

4 (50%+)

Advertising Manager, Brand Manager,
Customer Relationship Manager,
Marketing Manager, Marketing
Researcher, Customer Services
Manager, Marketing Consultant,
Media Planner, Sales Manager.

APK

Logistics Manager,
Consultant, Production Manager.

APK

APB

APK

CAMPUS

Technical Mathematics
4 (50%+)

Information Manager, Knowledge
Manager, Researcher, Competitive
Intelligence Officer, Records Manager.

4 (50%+)

Mathematical Literacy
6 (70%+)
Not accepted Not accepted
Not
accepted

Mathematics
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

English
4 (50%+)

27

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

5 (60%+)

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

28 with Mathematical Literacy

TRANSPORT
AND LOGISTICS
MANAGEMENT

B34IMQ

MARKETING
MANAGEMENT

B1CISQ

INFORMATION
SYSTEMS

B1CMMQ

INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT

B34TLQ

PROGRAMME

Admission requirements for candidates with National Senior Certificate (NSC)

NOTES:
’éĪ The achievement level (rating) obtained for Life Orientation is NOT included in the calculation of the Admission Points
Score (APS).
’éĪ All degrees are presented in English only.
’éĪ The Bachelors of Commerce in Accounting degree programme (B34A5Q) does not provide direct access to the
Postgraduate Diploma in Accounting Science. However, students who complete the Bachelors of Commerce in
Accounting degree, may apply for a bridging programme (subject to space, admission requirements and the continued
future offering of this programme). Upon completion of this bridging programme and compliance with specific
performance requirements, candidates may then apply for the Postgraduate Diploma in Accounting Science.

The College of Business and Economics
has evolved into a preferred commerce and
economic education provider who, within
three years, has achieved global recognition.
42

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS

CAREER

Technical Mathematics

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Admission requirements for candidates with National Senior Certificate (NSC)

EXTENDED DEGREE PROGRAMMES

3 (40%+)

Management opportunities in
various industries on first and/or
middle management level,
Training Manager, HRD Manager,
Employment Relations Manager,
Product Development Manager,
Branch Manager, General Manager,
Change Facilitator, Management
Consultant, Entrepreneur,
Business Innovator.

Not accepted)

Economist, Econometrician,
Economic Analyst, Forecaster,
Economic Planner.

APK

Financial Manager, Stockbroker,
Accountant, Financial Consultant,
Investment Advisor.

APK

APK

APK

Not accepted

Financial Manager, Accountant,
Internal Auditor, Tax Consultant.

Not accepted

6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)

3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)

25 with Maths OR
28 with Maths Lit

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

B34BEQ

25 with Maths OR 25 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
28 with Maths Lit
28 with Maths Lit

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

FINANCE

25 with Maths OR
28 with Maths Lit

ECONOMICS AND
ECONOMETRICS

B3NE4Q

BUSINESS
MANAGEMENT

B34FEQ

ACCOUNTING

B34AEQ

Bachelor of Commerce Extended Degree (4 years)

NOTES:
’éĪ The achievement level (rating) obtained for Life Orientation is NOT included in the calculation of the Admission Points
Score (APS).
’éĪ All extended degrees are presented in English only.
’éĪ Only new first time entering candidates are considered for admission into BCom extended degree programmes.
This means that those who previously enrolled at a Higher Education Institution, do not qualify.
’éĪ The Bachelors of Commerce in Accounting Extended Degree (B34AEQ) programme does not provide direct access to
the Postgraduate Diploma in Accounting Science. However, students who complete the Bachelors of Commerce in
Accounting Extended Degree, may apply for a bridging programme (subject to space, admission requirements and
the continued future offering of this programme). Upon completion of this bridging programme and compliance with
specific performance requirements, candidates may then apply for the Postgraduate Diploma in Accounting Science.
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

43

CAMPUS

CAREER

Technical Mathematics

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Admission requirements for candidates with National Senior Certificate (NSC)

DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES

44

3 (40%+)

IT practitioners provide solutions
to business problems through the
application of computer based
technology and techniques.

3 (40%+)

Middle and Back Office Operations:
Financial Operations Administrator,
Operations Analyst, Risk and
Compliance Officer.

SWC

The successful food and beverage
operations student will possess the
appropriate skills at operational and
supervisory levels within the food and
beverage industry in South Africa or
internationally. Persons can work in
food and beverage units, private and
executive catering, marketing and
promotions, training or in areas of
food and drinks within the industry.

APB

APB

SWC

3 (40%+)

Accounting Technician, Bookkeeper,
Cost Accountant.

3 (40%+)

5 (60%+)
6 (70%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)

22 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
24 with Mathematical Literacy

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

DI1401

22 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
24 with Mathematical Literacy
22 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
24 with Mathematical Literacy

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

FOOD AND BEVERAGE
OPERATIONS

22 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
24 with Mathematical Literacy

FINANCIAL SERVICES
OPERATIONS *

D34F9Q

BUSINESS INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY

D34FBQ

ACCOUNTANCY *

D3A15Q

Diplomas (3 years)

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS
APB

People Management Practitioners
dealing with employee-related
issues in organisations. Human
Resource Officer, Employee Benefits
Officer, Health and Wellness Official,
Recruitment and Selection Official,
Human Resource Researcher,
Training and Development Officer,
Change Facilitator, Organisational
Development Practitioner.

APB

Advertising, Brand Management,
Customer Relationship Manager,
Marketing Manager, Marketing
Researcher, Customer Services,
Marketing Consulting, Media Planner
and Sales Manager.

SWC

CAREER

3 (40%+)

Technical Mathematics
3 (40%+)

Purchasing Manager,
Warehouse Manager.

3 (40%+)

Mathematical Literacy
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

Mathematics
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)

English
4 (50%+)

Minimum APS

Qualification Code
D34LGQ

24 with Maths/Tech Maths OR
26 with Mathematical Literacy
22 with Maths/Tech Maths
OR 24 with Maths Lit

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

PEOPLE
MANAGEMENT

22 with Maths/Tech Maths
OR 24 with Maths Lit

MARKETING **

D34MKQ

LOGISTICS

D34P2Q

PROGRAMME

Admission requirements for candidates with National Senior Certificate (NSC)

NOTES for 3 year diplomas on pages 44, 45 & 46:
’éĪ The achievement level (rating) obtained for Life Orientation is NOT included in the calculation of the Admission Points
Score (APS).
’éĪ All diplomas are presented in English only.
*

A student in the College of Business and Economics who has diploma endorsement but does not meet the specific
diploma entry requirements may obtain access to diploma studies in Accountancy or Financial Services Operations
through the Programme in Commercial Accounting and must complete all prescribed modules of the latter programme
within the first year of registration.
** A student in the College of Business and Economics who has a the Higher Certificate endorsement and has completed
the Higher Certificate in Marketing and Sales with UJŌĆÖs Department of Marketing Management, may gain access to the
diploma in Marketing or Retail Business Management provided that they:
ŌĆō have completed the Higher Certificate in Marketing and Sales within the first year of registration;
ŌĆō obtained a minimum mark of 60% for each of the following modules: English 1A, English 1B, Mathematics for
Marketers 1A and Mathematics for Marketers 1B. Additional department selection criteria will apply.
ŌĆō Alternatively, a student who has completed the Short Learning Programmes (SLPs) Retail Management (S3M01Q) or
Introduction to Retail Management (MKT010) may also gain access to the Diploma in Retail Business Management.
*** It is recommended that applicants to the Small Business Management qualification show a desire to start their own
business and to become an entrepreneur.
45

Purchasing Manager,
Warehouse Manager.

People Management Practitioners deal with
employee-related issues in organisations.
Human Resource Officer, Employee
Benefits Officer, Health and Wellness
Official, Recruitment and Selection Official,
Human Resource Researcher, Training and
Development Officer, Change Facilitator,
Organisational Development Practitioner.

SWC

Entrepreneur, Business Owner,
Business Advisor, Business Manager,
Social Entrepreneur.
It is recommended that applicants to
this qualification show a desire to start
their own business.

SWC

CAMPUS

3 (40%+)

Transportation Manager.

APB

APB

SWC

APB

3 (40%+)

Prepares the graduate with
operational and managerial aspects to
work in a variety of different tourism
related sectors.

3 (40%+)

CAREER

3 (40%+)

Entrepreneur, Business Owner,
Business Advisor, Business Manager,
Social Entrepreneur.
It is recommended that applicants to
this qualification show a desire to start
their own business.

3 (40%+)

Technical Mathematics
3 (40%+)

Prepares the graduate for work in
the retailing industry. Buyers, Store Managers,
Layout Specialists, Visual Merchandisers,
Product Category Managers, Sales Managers,
Service Retailing, Advertising and Sales
Promotion, Customer Experience Leaders,
Customer Analytics, Retail Software
Developers, Business Owner.

3 (40%+)

Mathematical Literacy
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

Mathematics
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)

English
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

Minimum APS
22 with Maths/Tech Maths
OR
24 with Maths Lit
22 with Maths/Tech
Maths OR
24 with Maths Lit
22 with Maths/Tech
Maths OR
24 with Maths Lit
24 with Maths/Tech
Maths OR
26 with Maths Lit

TRANSPORTATION
MANAGEMENT

D34RMQ

Qualification Code

TOURISM
MANAGEMENT

D34SBQ

SMALL BUSINESS
MANAGEMENT ***

D34TMQ

RETAIL BUSINESS
MANAGEMENT **

D34TRQ

PROGRAMME

Admission requirements for candidates with National Senior Certificate (NSC)

EXTENDED DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES

APB

5 (60%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

22 with Maths/Tech
Maths OR
24 with Maths Lit
19 with Maths/Tech
Maths OR
21 with Maths Lit
19 with Maths/Tech
Maths OR
21 with Maths Lit

SMALL BUSINESS
MANAGEMENT

D34PEQ

PEOPLE
MANAGEMENT

D34SEQ

LOGISTICS

D34LEQ

Extended Diplomas (4 years)

Transportation Manager.

CAMPUS
APB

CAREER

Technical Mathematics
3 (40%+)

Mathematical Literacy
5 (60%+)

Mathematics
3 (40%+)

English
4 (50%+)

Qualification Code

Minimum APS
22 with Maths/Tech
Maths OR
24 with Maths Lit

TRANSPORTATION
MANAGEMENT

D34TEQ

PROGRAMME

Admission requirements for candidates with National Senior Certificate (NSC)

CAMPUS

CAREER

Technical Mathematics

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

NOTES:
’éĪ The achievement level (rating) obtained for Life Orientation is NOT included in the calculation of the Admission Points
Score (APS).
’éĪ All extended diplomas are presented in English only.
’éĪ Only first time (new) entering candidates are considered for admission into the extended diploma programmes.
This means that those who was previously enrolled at a Higher Education Institution do not qualify.

Not accepted

Financial Manager, Accountant,
Internal Auditor, Tax Consultant.

Online

4 (50%+)

HRM Personnel Manager, HRM
Personnel Officer, Training Manager,
Recruitment and Selection Officer.

Online

Not accepted
5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

28 with
Mathematics
28 with Maths/Tech
Maths OR
28 with Maths Lit

BACHELOR OF
HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT

B34HRP

BACHELOR OF
COMMERCE IN
ACCOUNTANCY

B34ACP

ONLINE PROGRAMMES

ONLINE PROGRAMME NOTES:
’éĪ The achievement level (rating) obtained for Life Orientation is NOT included in the calculation of the Admission Points
Score (APS).
’éĪ All Online programmes are presented in English only.
’éĪ Online programmes are offered on an online basis only.
’éĪ To apply for Online programmes go to https://online.uj.ac.za.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

47

Admission requirements for candidates with National Certificate (Vocational) ŌĆō NC(V)
A National Certificate (Vocational) ŌĆō NC(V) (Level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.

In the College of Business and Economics, NC(V) candidates are considered
only for Extended Diploma, Diploma, Extended Degree and certain
Bachelors and Bachelors in Commerce Degree programmes as listed below.
Fundamental Component
Programme

Qualification
Code

English

Mathematics OR
Mathematical Literacy
Mathematics

Vocational
Component

Mathematical Literacy

DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES
Diplomas (3 years)
Accountancy

D3A15Q

60%

60%

70%

60% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects

Business Information
Technology

DI1401

60%

70%

80%

60% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Financial Service
Operations

D34F9Q

60%

60%

70%

60% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects

Food and Beverage
Operations

D34FBQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Logistics

D34LGQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Marketing

D34MKQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

People
Management

D34P2Q

60%

60%

70%

60% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Retail Business
Management

D34RMQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Small Business
Management

D34SBQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Tourism
Management

D34TMQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Transportation
Management

D34TRQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Fundamental Component
Programme

Qualification
Code

English

Mathematics OR
Mathematical Literacy
Mathematics

Vocational
Component

Mathematical Literacy

EXTENDED DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES
Diplomas (4 years)

48

Logistics

D34LEQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects

People
Management

D34PEQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects

Small Business
Management

D34SEQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects

Transportation
Management

D34TEQ

60%

60%

70%

60% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects
UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Fundamental Component
Programme

Qualification
Code

English

Mathematics OR
Mathematical Literacy
Mathematics

Vocational
Component

Mathematical Literacy

DEGREE PROGRAMMES
Bachelor Degree (3 years)
Hospitality
Management

B34HNQ

70%

70%

80%

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Human Resource
Management (Online)

B34HRP

70%

70%

80%

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Human Resource
Management (Contact)

B34HRQ

70%

70%

80%

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Tourism Development
and Management

B34TDQ

70%

70%

80%

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Bachelor of Commerce Degree (3 Years)
Business Management

B34BMQ

70%

70%

N/A

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Entrepreneurial
Management

B1CEMQ

70%

70%

N/A

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Industrial Psychology

B34INQ

70%

70%

80%

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Information
Management

B34IMQ

70%

70%

80%

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Information Systems

B1CISQ

70%

70%

N/A

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Marketing
Management

B1CMMQ

70%

70%

N/A

70% in 5 of the 7 fundamental
and vocational subjects

Bachelor of Commerce Extended Degree (4 years)
Accounting

B34AEQ

70%

70%

80%

70% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects

Business Management

B34BEQ

70%

70%

80%

70% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects

Economics and
Econometrics

B3NE4Q

70%

70%

80%

70% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects

Finance

B34FEQ

70%

70%

80%

70% in 3 compulsory
vocational subjects

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

49

NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE FOR ADULTS (NASCA)
Background: NASCA allows learners with incomplete Senior Certificate credits, as well as adult learners 18 years and older,
to complete their Senior Certificate.
a. To be awarded the NASCA a learner has to pass 120 credits on NQF level 4 obtaining at least 50% in four 30 credit
subjects. At least four subjects are required for certification. The four 30 credit subjects must be from:
1. A minimum of two compulsory subjects ŌĆō one language and the other either Mathematics or Quantitative Literacy;
2. A minimum of two additional subjects selected from:
’éĪ An additional official language
’éĪ Natural Sciences (Biology, Physics or Chemistry)
’éĪ Information and Communication Technology
’éĪ Human and Social Science (History or Geography)
’éĪ Economics and Management Sciences (Economics, Business Studies or Finance)
b. No endorsement is indicated on the certificate. NASCA is a certificate of competence per se.
Admission requirements for National Senior Certificate for Adults (NASCA)
Candidates will only be considered for Extended Diploma and Diploma programmes.
Selection criteria:
a. Senate Discretionary Conditional Admission for applicants who have successfully completed the NASCA and who
have applied for admission to an Extended Diploma or Diploma in CBE provided that:
1. The applicant meets the following minimum subject requirements:
’éĪ English
60% (APS 5)
’éĪ Maths
60% (APS 5)
’éĪ Technical Maths 60% (APS 5) or
’éĪ Maths Literacy 70% (APS 6)
2. The applicant complete a PsyCaD assessment; obtaining an unconditional recommendation; and
3. The relevant Director of School recommend the admission.
b. Applicants may also be required to write a placement/aptitude test to evaluate their learning potential for the relevant
programme/s.
c. Selection is based on academic merit and the availability of places and hence specific selection criteria may be applied
within the required Enrolment Management Plan as the University has a specific number of places available as approved
by the Department of Higher Education and Training for new undergraduate first year students.

AMENDED SENIOR CERTIFICATE (SC(a))
Background: The following learners will qualify for admission to the Amended Senior Certificate:
a. Adult learners who are 21 years and older who have:
1. A General Education and Training Certificate (GETC); or
2. A Grade 9 school report (or the old standard seven). stating that they have passed Grade 9 or Standard 7; or
3. A recognised equivalent qualification obtained at NQF Level which requires two official languages;
b. Adult learners who are 21 years and older with an incomplete Senior Certificate qualification;
c. Adult learners who are 21 years and older with an incomplete National Senior Certificate and whose School-Based
Assessment (SBA) validity has expired;
d. Only in exceptional cases, out of school youth, who are 18-21 years old and who could not complete their school
education due to circumstances beyond their control, as verified by the Head of Department in the Provincial
Education Department.
To be awarded the Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a)) a learner has to complete six subjects and obtain the following
minimum results:
a. Pass three subjects at 40%, one of which must be an official language at Home Language level;
b. Pass two subjects at 30%, one of which must be an official language at First Additional or Home Language level;
c. Obtain a subminimum of 20% in the sixth subject.
No endorsement is indicated on the certificate as subjects might be a combination of NC (until 2007) and
NSC (from 2008) subjects.
Admission requirements for the Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a))
Candidates will only be considered for Extended Diploma, Diploma, Extended Degree, BCom (Accountancy) (Online) or
BA Degree programmes.
Selection criteria:
a. Senate Discretionary Conditional Admission for candidates who have successfully completed the SC(a) and who have
applied for admission to an Extended Diploma, Diploma, Extended Degree, BCom (Accountancy) (Online) or BA Degree
programmes in CBE provided that:
1. The student meets the minimum APS and the minimum subject requirements per qualification;
50

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

2a. The applicant complete the NBT, obtaining at least
the following results:
Academic Literacy
65%
Quantitative Literacy
52%
Maths
50% and
2b.		 The relevant Director of School recommend the
admission.
2c.		 Selection is based on academic merit and the
availability of places and hence specific selection
criteria may be applied within the required
Enrolment Management Plan as the University has a
specific number of places available as approved by
the Department of Higher Education and Training for
new undergraduate first year students.
Minimum APS and minimum subject requirements
for SC(a) per qualification type:
PROGRAMMES

SC(a)

Extended Diplomas
APS with Mathematics

20

APS with Mathematical Literacy

22

English

4

Mathematics

3

Mathematical Literacy

5

BCom (Accountancy) (Online) &
BCom (Accounting) B34ACP

APS with Mathematics

23

APS with Mathematical Literacy

25

Candidates who do not meet the minimum requirements
for the online programme, BCom in Accountancy, will be
considered based on the entry requirements below:

English

4

Mathematics

3

Mathematical Literacy

6

Diplomas

Extended Degrees
APS with Mathematics

27

APS with Mathematical Literacy

30

English

4

Mathematics

3

Mathematical Literacy

6

BA Degrees
APS with Mathematics

28

APS with Mathematical Literacy

30

English

4

Mathematics

4

Mathematical Literacy

6

BCom Online Programmes
APS with Mathematics

28

APS with Mathematical Literacy *

28

English

4

Mathematics

4

Mathematical Literacy *

5

* Not applicable for the online
BCom (Accountancy) programme.

1. Mature age exemption:
Applicants older than 23* will be considered if the
matric certificate is below the minimum requirements.
However, the applicant still need to have a degree
endorsement and meet the following requirements:
’éĪ APS score = 26
’éĪ Maths = 3
’éĪ English = 3
’éĪ Applicants younger than 23 will be handled on an
Ad-hoc basis.
* Mature age conditional exemptions as per par. 30
of USAF Exemption requirements.
2. Applicants with a previously completed qualification:
a) Applicants with a completed degree or diploma
but has an APS score below the minimum
requirement will be considered if they have a degree
endorsement and meet the following requirements:
’éĪ APS score = 26
’éĪ Maths = 3
’éĪ English = 3
b) Applicants with a completed diploma but has an
APS score below the minimum requirement without
a degree endorsement will be considered if they
obtain a certificate from HESA and meet the following
requirements:
’éĪ APS score = 26
’éĪ Maths = 3
’éĪ English = 3

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

51

The Faculty of Education strives
to prepare teachers who are
caring, accountable and criticallyreflective about the who, what,
how and why of teaching in a
diversity of contexts.

Education

Disclaimer: Due to limited space, fulfilling all the minimum admission
requirements does not guarantee acceptance into a programme.
52

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

The Faculty of Education at UJ is committed to
knowledge making for 21st century education.
To this end the Faculty offers initial teacher education
programmes (Bachelor of Education degrees).
Teacher education for primary school teaching
’éĪ BEd in Foundation Phase Teaching (Grades R-3)
’éĪ BEd in Intermediate Phase Teaching (Grades 4-7)
Teacher education for secondary school teacher education
’éĪ BEd in Senior Phase and FET Teaching (Grades 8-12)
Through its teacher education programmes, the Faculty strives
to prepare teachers who are caring, accountable and critically
reflective about the who, what, how and why of teaching in a
diversity of contexts. Through integrating coursework at the
University and practicum at schools the Faculty creates learning
opportunities for student teachers to acquire
’éĪ a thorough understanding of learning and development
in childhood/adolescence
’éĪ sound subject knowledge
’éĪ an understanding of contextual factors that impact
learning and schooling
’éĪ an appreciation for the demands of the teaching profession
’éĪ a repertoire of teaching strategies and skills
’éĪ a reflective stance towards teaching.
The primary school teacher education programmes are
unique in the country. The coursework is integrated with
practical experience over four years in the UJ founded,
Funda UJabule School. At this school, which is situated on
the Soweto campus, students observe how children learn
and develop, they work closely with teachers and they are
mentored by the teachers.

The primary school teacher education programme is integrated with
studentsŌĆÖ practice over four years in the UJ-founded, Funda UJabule School.
This is unique in the country. At this school students observe how children
develop, they work closely with teachers and are mentored by teachers.
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

53

CAREER

CAMPUS

Mathematical Literacy /
Technical Mathematics
5 (60%+)

SWC

5 (60%+)

OR

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Educator
focusing on
primary school
teaching.

Educator
focusing on
primary school
teaching.

SWC

DEGREE PROGRAMMES FOR PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHING
Home language
5 (60%+) OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

3 (40%+)

28

OR

3 (40%+)

FOUNDATION PHASE
TEACHING
GRADE R-3

B5BFPQ

BEd Degree in Foundation Phase Teaching (4 years)

OR

CAMPUS

English

Minimum APS

Home language
5 (60%+) OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

CAREER

28

Qualification
Code

PROGRAMME

INTERMEDIATE PHASE
TEACHING
GRADE 4-7

B5BITQ

BEd Degree in Intermediate Phase Teaching (4 years)

DEGREE PROGRAMMES FOR HIGH SCHOOL TEACHING

Mathematical
Literacy / Technical
Mathematics

Educator focusing on
high school teaching.

APK

4 (50%+)

ŌĆō

Not
applicable

APK

4 (50%+)

ŌĆō

5 (60%+)

APK

ŌĆō

Not
applicable

APK

CAMPUS

OR

Home language 5 (60%+)
OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

Mathematics

28

English

B5LOPQ

Minimum APS

PROGRAMME

PSYCHOLOGY

Qualification Code

BEd Degree in Senior Phase and Further Education and Training (Grade 8-12) ŌĆō LIFE ORIENTATION

BEd Degree in Senior Phase and Further Education and Training (Grade 8-12)
ŌĆō COMMERCE EDUCATION
ACCOUNTING

B5BSAQ

28

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT

B5BSBQ

28

ECONOMICS

B5BSEQ

28

Home language 5 (60%+)
OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

4 (50%+)

CAREER: Educator focusing on high school teaching.

54

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAREER

CAMPUS

Educator focusing on high school teaching.

Afrikaans

Sepedi

IsiZulu

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

APK

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

Home language
4 (50%+) OR
Additional Language
5 (60%+)

ISIZULU

B5LAZQ

28

Home language
Home language
5 (60%+) OR
4 (50%+) OR
Additional Language Additional Language
6 (70%+)
5 (60%+)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

SEPEDI

B5LASQ

28

Home language
5 (60%+) OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

Home language
4 (50%+) OR
Additional Language
5 (60%+)

Not
applicable

Mathematics /
Technical Maths

English

Not
applicable

APK

APK

APK

CAMPUS

Home language
5 (60%+) OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

AND

28

Life Sciences

B5LAFQ

OR

AFRIKAANS

Physical Sciences

Not
applicable

AND/OR

Not
applicable

Mathematical
Literacy

Not
applicable

OR

Home language
5 (60%+) OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

Minimum APS

28

Qualification Code

B5LAEQ

PROGRAMME

ENGLISH

Geography

BEd Degree in Senior Phase and Further Education and Training (Grade 8-12)
ŌĆō LANGUAGE EDUCATION

3 (40%+)

APK

Not
applicable

APK

Not
applicable

APK

Not
applicable

AND
ŌĆō
ŌĆō
ŌĆō

3 (40%+)
4 (50%+)
Not
applicable
Not
applicable

OR
OR
ŌĆō
ŌĆō

3 (40%+)
4 (50%+)
Not
applicable
4 (50%+)

Home language
5 (60%+) OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

OR

28

AND

B5SPSQ

ŌĆō

PHYSICAL
SCIENCE

AND

Home language
5 (60%+) OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

6 (70%+)

28

6 (70%+)

B5SMMQ

6 (70%+)

MATHEMATICS

Not
applicable

Home language
5 (60%+) OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

OR

28

OR

B5SLSQ

OR

LIFE SCIENCES

ŌĆō

Home language
5 (60%+) OR
Additional Language
6 (70%+)

4 (50%+)

28

4 (50%+)

B5SGEQ

4 (50%+)

GEOGRAPHY

4 (50%+)

BEd Degree in Senior Phase and Further Education and Training (Grade 8-12)
ŌĆō GEOGRAPHY, LIFE SCIENCES, MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICAL SCIENCES

APK

CAREER: Educator focusing on high school teaching.
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

55

56

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
for the BEd programmes
A valid National Senior Certificate (NSC) with admission
for degree purposes.
’éĪ Minimum APS of 28, excluding Life Orientation.
’éĪ A BachelorŌĆÖs degree endorsement (the minimum entry
requirements to study towards a degree) does not
guarantee admission to the BEd.
’éĪ Preliminary admission is based on the results obtained in
the final Grade 11 examination.
Final admission is based on the final Grade 12 results.
’éĪ

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS: National
Certificate (vocational) (NCV)
Subject to institutional admission requirements, the
minimum admission requirement to BachelorŌĆÖs degree
programme is a National Certificate (Vocational) Level 4
issued by the Council for General and Further Education and
Training. The minimum legislative requirements for admission
to a BachelorsŌĆÖ degree include the achievement of:
’éĪ Three (3) fundamental subjects between 60-69% ŌĆō
including English as language of learning and teaching.
’éĪ Three vocational subjects from the designated list
between 70-79%.

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS for
applicants holding the National Senior
Certificate for Adults (NASCA) or the
Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a)) for
qualifications in the Faculty of Education.
The B-degree endorsement is a legal requirement to be
admitted into the undergraduate programmes in the
Faculty of Education. Thus for both the NASCA and SC(a) for
admission to a programme in the Faculty of Education the
Senate Discretionary Approval process will be followed.
Applications will be dealt with by the Faculty Teaching
and Learning Committee for recommendation to the
Faculty Board. Faculty Board will then refer the approved
applications to Senate for Senate Discretionary approval.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

57

Engineering
and the
Built Environment

Disclaimer: Due to limited space, fulfilling all the
minimum admission requirements does not guarantee
acceptance into a programme.

58

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

The Faculty of Engineering and the Built Environment (FEBE) is one of
eight faculties* at the University of Johannesburg, home to five schools,
12 departments and two technology stations. It offers both Engineering
Technology and Engineering Science undergraduate and postgraduate
programmes. In keeping with the UniversityŌĆÖs comprehensive status, the
Faculty is the first in South Africa to offer global education to a full range
of professional engineering qualifications.
FEBE remains a leading provider of well-qualified and accredited engineers,
technologists and technicians. Over the years, the Faculty has established
strategic partnerships within the international higher education landscape and
with key industry stakeholders. Operating within the dynamic and competitive
higher education landscape, FEBE is innovative in its approach to teaching,
learning, collaborative research, community engagement, international
partnerships and remains at the cutting edge of technology. It is focused on
the promotion of reflective and critical thinking, novel ways of problem-solving
and believes in environmentally sustainable solutions.
Engineering broadly focuses on the creative application of scientific and
technical knowledge to design, analyse, develop structures, machines,
manufacturing processes, construction of works/systems for practical purposes
or maximizing operations. An Engineer is one that analyses and innovates,
while the Technologist will implement and develop and the Technician will
install, commission, maintain and operate. Courses within the Faculty are best
suited for learners who are creative thinkers, possess an inventive imagination
with an aptitude for mathematics, science and technology, learners who enjoy
discovering how things work and solving problems with logic and reason.
The Faculty of Engineering and the Built Environment is supported by the
following Accreditation Bodies:
’éĪ Engineering and Engineering Technology Programmes: Engineering Council
of South Africa (ECSA)
’éĪ Town and Regional Planning: South African Council for Planners (SACPLAN)
’éĪ Mine Surveying: South African Council for Professional and Technical Surveyors
(PLATO)
’éĪ Construction Management: South African Council for Project and Construction
Management Professions (SACPCMP) & South African Council for the Quantity
Surveying Profession (SACQSP)
’éĪ Quality and Operations Management Programmes are not subject to accreditation
by professional bodies.
Accreditation agencies generally align to international accords and in this way
programmes listed by FEBE receive recognition internationally. ECSA is a signatory of
the Dublin, Sydney and Washington Accord which provides international recognition
for the FacultyŌĆÖs BEng and BEng Tech. Curricula are specifically designed, taking into
consideration the National Skills Development Plan, industry needs, surrounding
communities, government, economy and international bodies. Programmes are subject
to accreditation visits and quality assurance.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

59

CAMPUS

CAREER

Technical Science

OR

Physical Sciences

Mathematics /
Technical Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME
DEGREE PROGRAMMES

Not
accepted

Plan, design and construction
of infrastructure.

APK

Not
accepted

Electronic Design, Software
System Design.

APK

Not
accepted

ŌĆō
ŌĆō
ŌĆō

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)

32

5 (60%+)

32

5 (60%+)

MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING

B6CISQ

ELECTRICAL AND
ELECTRONIC
ENGINEERING

32

B6ELSQ

CIVIL ENGINEERING

B6MESQ

Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) Degree (4 years)

Designing, manufacturing, and
maintenance of machines.

APK

60

Not
accepted

Design and manage industrial
chemical processes for the
manufacturing sector.

DFC

5 (60%+)

Plan, design and construction of
infrastructure.

DFC

Not
accepted

Electronic Design, Software
System Design.

DFC

Not
accepted

Manage metallurgical plants that
are designed to recover and
refine metals or other valuable
constituents in mine ores.

DFC

5 (60%+)

Design and implement systems
in organisations to maximise
production.

DFC

5 (60%+)

Design, manufacture and
maintain industrial machines
and engines.

DFC

5 (60%+)

Select and manage the correct
method of mining in specific
geological environments.

DFC

Not
accepted

ŌĆō
OR
ŌĆō
ŌĆō
OR
OR
OR
ŌĆō

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

30

4 (50%+)

23

4 (50%+)

30

4 (50%+)

30

4 (50%+)

30

4 (50%+)

PHYSICAL
METALLURGY

B6CE1Q

MINING
ENGINEERING

B6CV3Q

MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING

B6EL1Q

INDUSTRIAL
ENGINEERING

B6EXTQ

EXTRACTION
METALLURGY

30

B6IN2Q

ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING

28

B6MC2Q

CIVIL
ENGINEERING

30

B6MINQ

CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING

B6PY2Q

Bachelor of Engineering Technology (BEngTech) Degree Programmes (3 years)

Assesses the suitability of metals
for their use in metallic goods.

DFC

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS

CAREER

Geography

Technical Science

OR

Physical Sciences

Mathematics /
Technical Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

'Spot' the robot dog

Not
applicable

Advise surveying
mining engineers about
geological areas that can
be profitably mined.

DFC

Not
applicable

Students are employed in
the construction industry
as Quantity Surveyors and
Construction Managers.

DFC

5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)

OR

5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)

23

4 (50%+)

MINE SURVEYING

B6SU0Q

Bachelor of Mine Surveying Degree (3 years)

The allocation and spatial
organisation of land uses
to ensure coordinated and
harmonious development
and to create successful and
sustainable human settlements.

DFC

5 (60%+)

OR

5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)

30

4 (50%+)

CONSTRUCTION

B6CN0Q

Bachelor of Science in Construction (BSc) Degree (3 years)

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

Not applicable

ŌĆō

Not applicable

5 (60%+)

27

4 (50%+)

URBAN AND
REGIONAL
PLANNING

B6UP0Q

Bachelor of Urban and Regional Planning Degree (3 years)

61

Mathematical Literacy

CAREER

CAMPUS

5 (60%+)

DFC

5 (60%+)

Mathematics /
Technical Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Advise on improving the efficiency
and the productivity of an
organisation.

This career equips the graduate with
the ability to plan, organise and
control operational activities
in an organisation.

DFC

3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)

20 with
Mathematics
OR 22 with
Mathematical
Literacy

4 (50%+)

19 with
Mathematics
OR 21 with
Mathematical
Literacy

4 (50%+)

OPERATIONS
MANAGEMENT

D6MASQ

MANAGEMENT
SERVICES

D6OPMQ

DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES (3 years)

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS WITH A NATIONAL CERTIFICATE (VOCATIONAL) (NCV)
For admission to a BEng degree (4 years) the applicant must have:
’éĪ A NCV (level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.
’éĪ Achieved a minimum of 70% for 5 of the 7 subjects ŌĆō fundamental and vocational categories.
’éĪ Passed English as Language of Teaching and Learning / First Additional Language as fundamental component with a minimum of 70%.
’éĪ Passed Mathematics and Physical Sciences as Fundamental Components with a minimum score of 70%.
For admission to a Diploma the applicant must have:
A NCV (level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.
’éĪ Achieved a minimum of 60% for 6 of the 7 subjects ŌĆō fundamental and vocational categories.
’éĪ Passed English as Language of Teaching and Learning / First Additional Language as fundamental component with a minimum of 70%.
’éĪ Passed Mathematics and Physical Sciences as Fundamental Components with a minimum score of 60%.
’éĪ

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE FOR ADULTS (NASCA) APPLICANTS:
National Senior Certificate for Adults (NASCA): The following criteria will apply for admission to all undergraduate Engineering
programmes (BEng).
’éĪ

’éĪ
’éĪ
’éĪ
’éĪ

The following minimum subject requirements will apply for admission:
ŌĆō English 50%
APS 4
ŌĆō Maths 60%
APS 5
ŌĆō Physical Science 60%
APS 5
Applicants will be required to complete a PsyCaD assessment obtaining an unconditional recommendation;
Recommendation by the relevant Head of Department;
Senate Discretionary Conditional Admission for applicants who have successfully completed the NASCA, provided that the applicant
meets all the requirements;
Admission will also be based on the availability of space according to the Enrolment Management Plan of UJ as approved by the
Department of Higher Education and Training.

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE AMENDED SENIOR CERTIFICATE (SC(a)) APPLICANTS:

Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a)): The following criteria will apply for admission to all undergraduate Engineering programmes (BEng).
’éĪ

’éĪ
’éĪ
’éĪ
’éĪ

62

The following minimum subject requirements will apply for admission:
ŌĆō English 50%
APS 4
ŌĆō Maths 60%
APS 5
ŌĆō Physical Science 60%
APS 5
Applicants will be required to complete a PsyCaD assessment obtaining an unconditional recommendation;
Recommendation by the relevant Head of Department;
Senate Discretionary Conditional Admission for applicants who have successfully completed the SC(a), provided that the applicant meets
all the requirements;
Admission will also be based on the availability of space according to the Enrolment Management Plan of UJ as approved by the
Department of Higher Education and Training.

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS

CAREER

Physical Sciences /
Technical Science

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics /
Technical Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

EXTENDED TECHNOLOGY DEGREE PROGRAMMES

DFC

4 (50%+)

Professional Civil
Engineering, Plan, Design
and Construction of
Infrastructure.

DFC

5 (60%+)

Electronic Design, Software
System Design.

DFC

4 (50%+)

Manage metallurgical plants
that are designed to recover
and refine metals or other
valuable constituents in
mine ores.

DFC

5 (60%+)

Industrial Engineers design
and implement systems in
organisations to maximise
production.

DFC

5 (60%+)

Mechanical Engineers
design, manufacture
and maintain industrial
machines and engines.

DFC

4 (50%+)

Engineering Metallurgists
assess the suitability of
metals for their use in
metallic goods.

DFC

Not accepted

Advise on improving
the efficiency and the
productivity of an
organisation.

DFC

This career equips the
graduate with
the ability to plan, organise
and control operational
activities in an organisation.

DFC

5 (60%+)

Students are employed in
the construction industry
as Quantity Surveyors and
Construction Managers.

Not accepted

Not
applicable

5 (60%+)

26

B6SC0Q

CONSTRUCTION

4 (50%+)

Extended Bachelor of Science in Construction (BSc) Degree Programme

Not
applicable
Not
applicable
Not
applicable
Not
applicable
Not
applicable
Not
applicable

4 (50%+)
5 (60%+)
4 (50%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

22

4 (50%+)

24

4 (50%+)

24

4 (50%+)

22

4 (50%+)

PHYSICAL
METALLURGY

B6CX3Q

MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING

B6L1XQ

INDUSTRIAL
ENGINEERING

B6EX0Q

EXTRACTION
METALLURGY

26

B6IX2Q

ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING

26

B6MX2Q

CIVIL ENGINEERING

B6PX2Q

Extended Bachelor of Engineering Technology (BEngTech) Degree Programmes

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)

20 with
Mathematics
OR 22 with
Mathematical
Literacy

4 (50%+)

19 with
Mathematics
OR 21 with
Mathematical
Literacy

4 (50%+)

OPERATIONS
MANAGEMENT

D6MAEQ

MANAGEMENT
SERVICES

D6OPEQ

EXTENDED DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES

63

Recognised nationally and internationally,
the University of JohannesburgŌĆÖs Faculty of
Health Sciences reflects one of the most unique
compositions within higher learning in South Africa
today. The Faculty houses not only programmes
traditionally associated with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa and the South African
Nursing Council, but also complementary health
disciplines and Sport and Movement Studies.
The Faculty offers innovative methods of training
with a focus on problem-based education, which
is underpinned by appropriate facilities ranging
from a well-equipped dissection facility to various
types of laboratories. An on-site Health Training
Centre ensures that students receive a wide range
of relevant experience under the supervision of
qualified practitioners, enhanced by placements in
relevant service-rendering facilities.
The FacultyŌĆÖs specialised and highly trained lecturers
prepare students for careers in Chiropractic, Emergency
Medical Care, Environmental Health, Complementary
Medicine, Biomedical Sciences, Nursing, Optometry,
Podiatry, Medical Imaging and Radiation Sciences,
and Sport and Movement Studies.

Health Sciences
64

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Disclaimer: Due to limited space,
fulfilling all the minimum admission
requirements does not guarantee
acceptance into a programme.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

65

CAREER

CAMPUS

Mathematical Literacy

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Biokineticists treat both orthopaedic
injuries and chronic diseases, like
hypertension, using exercise as their
main treatment modality. They also
focus on health promotion, wellness
and disease prevention.

DFC

DEGREE PROGRAMMES

CAREER

CAMPUS

Life Sciences
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)
Physical Sciences

DFC

Practitioners uses high
frequency sound waves to
produce images of body
structures.

DFC

5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)
Mathematics

Radiographers use x-ray
equipment and Magnetic
Resonance Imaging
equipment to produce
images that assist in the
diagnosis of injuries
and diseases.

Practitioners use small
amounts of radioactive
substances (radio-nuclides)
to diagnose and treat
diseases.

DFC

5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)
English

32 with
Mathematics
OR
33 with
Mathematical
Literacy

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

BIOKINETICS

B9S15Q

Bachelor of Biokinetics (4 years)

Radiation therapists use high DFC
energy radiation such as
x-rays, gamma rays, proton
or neutrons to treat cancer.

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

5 (60%+)

31 with
Mathematics

5 (60%+)

31 with
Mathematics

5 (60%+)

31 with
Mathematics

5 (60%+)

RADIATION THERAPY

B9M01Q

NUCLEAR MEDICINE

B9M03Q

DIAGNOSTIC
ULTRASOUND

31 with
Mathematics

B9M02Q

DIAGNOSTIC
RADIOGRAPHY

B9M04Q

Bachelor Degree (4 years)

Note: Courses in Diagnostic Radiography, Diagnostic Ultrasound, Nuclear Medicine and Radiation Therapy
do not accept Technical Mathematics and Technical Sciences.

66

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS

CAREER

Technical Science

Life Sciences

Physical Sciences

Technical Mathematics

Mathematics Literacy

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

OR

Chiropractors treat conditions
and injuries that are nerve,
muscle or joint related.

DFC

Not accepted

4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)

Not accepted

Not accepted

4 (50%+)

28

5 (60%+)

CHIROPRACTIC

B9C01Q

Bachelor of Health Sciences (4 years)

OR

Acupuncturists, health and
wellness industry, patientservices co-ordinator within a
multidisciplinary practice, retail
and pharmacy assistants, health
and lifestyle journalists.

DFC

Not accepted

4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)

Not accepted

Not accepted

4 (50%+)

28

5 (60%+)

COMPLEMENTARY
MEDICINE

B9CM1Q

Applicants are required to undergo a selection process that includes academic results, complete a questionnaire and provide
letters of recommendation/observation from two practising Doctors of Chiropractic. Potential applicants will then be invited to
attend an interview. Successful applicants are required to complete the Master of Health Sciences in Chiropractic to comply with
minimum registration requirements of the AHPCSA.

Emergency Care Practitioners
are specialists in the field of
emergency care and rescue,
focusing on the management of
critically ill or injured patients.
Career opportunities exist in public
and private emergency services,
both local and abroad. Holders of
the qualification will be entitled to
register as independent Emergency
Care Practitioners with the HPCSA.

DFC

Not accepted

4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)

Not accepted

Not accepted

4 (50%+)

27

5 (60%+)

EMERGENCY
MEDICAL CARE
(EMC)

B9E01Q

Applicants are required to complete an assignment, visit the on campus Complementary Medicine Clinic and provide a letter of
recommendation from a practitioner (Homeopath, accupuncturist or phytotherapist) as a component of the selection process.
The graduate will be eligible to register with the Allied Health Professionals Council of South Africa as an acupuncture therapist.
Successful graduates are required to complete the master of Health Sciences in Complementary Medicine to comply with
minimum registration requirements of AHPCSA for Homeopathy or Phytotherapy.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

Not accepted

Medical laboratory scientists
analyse clinical specimens
submitted to laboratories by
medical practitioners, and
interpret the results.

DFC

Not accepted

Podiatrists are health care
professionals that deals with the
examination, diagnosis, prevention
and treatment of conditions and
functions of the human foot, lower
limb and associated structures.
Holders of the qualification will be
entitled to register as independent
practitioners with the HPCSA.

DFC

5 (60%+)
4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)
Not accepted

Not accepted
Not accepted

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

28

5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

PODIATRY

B9B01Q

MEDICAL
LABORATORY
SCIENCE

B9P01Q

Applicants must pass both the fitness assessment, phobias evaluation and the medical examination in order to gain
entry into the Emergency Medical Care degree programme.

67

CAREER

CAMPUS

Life Sciences

Physical Sciences

Mathematics Literacy

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Environmental Health
Practitioners, Occupational
Health and Safety Officers,
Water Quality and Waste
Managers identify, monitor
and control physical, chemical
and biological hazards that are
harmful to human health.

DFC

CAMPUS

CAREER

4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)
Life Sciences

Not accepted

4 (50%+)
Mathematics

Physical Sciences

4 (50%+)
English

24

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH

B9ENV1

Bachelor of Environmental Health (4 years)

4 (50%+)

The student will qualify as a professional DFC
nurse and midwife who will be to
assess health needs and provide care
for patients, community memebers
and mothers and babies in a holistically
manner to address the quadruple
burden of disease as well as social
determinants affecting the health of the
community and enitre popluation.

5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)

30

5 (60%+)

NURSING

B9N02Q

Bachelor of Nursing (4 years)

Graduates can pursue careers as
optometrists providing primary eye
care, specialising in eyes examination
to identify and address a spectrum
of visual related irregularities, such
as vision defects, abnormalities
related to injuty or ocular disease.
Beyond general patient care, other
areas include paediatric optometry,
low vision or contact lens fitting.
Optometrists can engage in research,
academia, hospital settings or public
health initiatives, private practise,
corporate optometry and industry
consulting.

68

5 (60%+)

5 (60%+)

34

5 (60%+)

B OPTOM

B9O02Q

Bachelor of Optometry (4 years)
DFC

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAREER

CAMPUS

Mathematical
Literacy

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Sport Manager, Sport Marketer,
Sport Administrator, Sport Events
Organiser, Sport Promoter, Coach or
Specialisation in Biokinetics, Sport
Science or Sport Management,
Researcher, Exercise Scientist.

DFC

DEGREE PROGRAMME

CAREER

CAMPUS

Sport scientist, sport coach,
fitness instructor, health and
life style instructor/consultant,
performance analyst.

DFC

Technical Science

Not accepted
Technical Mathematics

4 (50%+)
Life Sciences

4 (50%+)
Physical Sciences

Mathematics Literacy

Mathematics

23 with
Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

SPORT MANAGEMENT

B9S14Q

BCom Degree (3 years)

DEGREE PROGRAMME

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)

Not applicable

4 (50%+)

3 (40%+)

5 (60%+)

27 with Maths OR
28 with Maths Lit

SPORT AND
EXERCISE
SCIENCES

B9SE1Q

Bachelor of Health Sciences Degree (3 years)

69

CAMPUS

CAREER

Mathematics Literacy

Mathematics /
Technical Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME
DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES

4 (50%+)

22 with
Mathematics
OR
23 with
Mathematical
Literacy

3 (40%+)

Note: The minimum admission
requirements for this
qualification does not include
Physical Science / Technical
Science. (Technical Science will
be considered if the applicant
was enrolled for it as an
additional module.)

3 (40%+)

SPORT MANAGEMENT

D9S01Q

Diploma (3 years)
Sports Administrator, Facilities
Manager, Professional Coach,
Fitness Trainer, Sports Marketer,
Sports Sponsorship Manager,
Events Manager and Marketer.

DFC

We provide our students with an enjoyable, safe, caring, supportive,
intellectually stimulating and technologically savvy environment.
NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE FOR ADULTS (NASCA)
AND AMENDED SENIOR CERTIFICATE (SC(a))
Proposed admission requirements for applicants holding the National Senior Certificate for Adults (NASCA) or the
Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a)) for qualifications in the Faculty of Health Sciences.
The B-degree endorsement is a legal requirement to be admitted into the undergraduate Degree programmes in the Faculty
of Health Sciences. Thus for both the NASCA and SC(a) for admission to a programme in the Faculty of Health Sciences the
Senate Discretionary Approval process will be followed.
Applications will be dealt with by the Faculty Teaching and Learning Committee for recommendation to the Faculty Board.
Faculty Board will then refer the approved applications to Senate for Senate Discretionary approval.
70

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS WITH
A NATIONAL CERTIFICATE (VOCATIONAL) (NCV)
For admission to a Degree (4 years) the applicant must have:
’éĪ A NCV (level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.
’éĪ Achieved a minimum of 70% for 5 of the 7 subjects ŌĆō fundamental and vocational categories.
’éĪ Passed English as Language of Teaching and Learning / First Additional Language as fundamental component with a
minimum of 70%.
’éĪ Passed Mathematics and Physical Sciences as Fundamental Components with a minimum score of 70%.
Relevant regulatory body admission requirements to be adhered to.
For admission to a BCom Degree the applicant must have:
’éĪ A NCV (level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.
’éĪ Achieved a minimum of 60% for 6 of the 7 subjects ŌĆō fundamental and vocational categories.
’éĪ Passed English as Language of Teaching and Learning / First Additional Language as fundamental component with a
minimum of 70%.
’éĪ Passed Mathematics and Physical Sciences as Fundamental Components with a minimum score of 60%.
Relevant regulatory body admission requirements to be adhered to.
For admission to a Diploma (3 years) the applicant must have:
’éĪ A NCV (level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.
’éĪ An achievement of at least 60% for 5 of the 7 subjects ŌĆō fundamental and vocational categories.
’éĪ An achievement of at least 60% in English as Language of Teaching and Learning / First Additional Language.
’éĪ An achievement of at least 60% in Mathematics or 70% in Mathematics Literacy ŌĆō taken as fundamental subjects.
’éĪ For the Diploma in Business Information Technology: an achievement of at least 70% in Mathematics and 80% in
Mathematic Literacy taken as fundamental subject.
Relevant regulatory body admission requirements to be adhered to.
Meeting the FacultyŌĆÖs minimum requirements for a particular programme does not necessarily guarantee admission
to that programme due to space constraints.
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

71

The Faculty of Humanities comprises of fourteen
academic departments ranging from modern
and ancient languages to the social sciences and
psychology. The Faculty offers three undergraduate
degree programmes and two diploma programmes,
catering for a wide range of study and career
opportunities. Moreover, there is ample choice in
each programme, to allow students to tailor the
contents of their programmes to suit their interests
and needs. The modules in each programme
are relevant, up to date and of the highest
academic standard. Academic departments offer
postgraduate programmes up to doctoral level.
Intellectually, the Faculty is vibrant, with a strong research
output, numerous public seminars, and a healthy tradition
of debate. Students are encouraged to question and
explore, and to interrogate knowledge paradigms rather
than simply accept them. A principal objective of the
Faculty is to produce graduates capable of advanced
analytical and critical thinking skills, independent and
progressive thinking, allowing them to access and
contribute towards all forms of human knowledge, and to
make dynamic interventions in their chosen professions.
Humanities graduates often achieve public prominence,
and contribute towards social good of society.
Extended programmes will only consider new
first-time entering candidates for admission, these are
candidates with no previous studies from a Higher
Education Institution.
Disclaimer: Due to limited space, fulfilling all the
mini┬Łmum admission requirements does not guarantee
acceptance into a programme.

Alones / Shutterstock.com

72

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Humanities
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

73

CAMPUS

CAREER

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME
DEGREE PROGRAMMES

Bachelor of Social Work (4 years)
SOCIAL WORK

B7025Q

31

5
(60%+)

Social Worker in Private Sector, Welfare
Organisations and Government or
Non-Governmental Organisations.

APK

Students are encouraged to question and explore,
and to interrogate knowledge paradigms
rather than simply accept them.
74

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAREER

CAMPUS

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Anthropologist, Ethicist, Social
Responsibility Officer, Manager of
Multicultural and Gender Affairs, General
Manager, Teacher, Human Resources
Development, Public Governance,
Civil Service, Politics, Financial Sector,
Journalist, Ethicist, Social Responsibility
Officer, Manager of Multicultural and
Gender Affairs, Development Planner,
Development Administrator, Researcher,
work for NGOs, Government or Private
Sector, Director, Producer, Script
Writer, Production Crew, Journalism,
Copywriting, Corporate Journalism,
Translators, Interpreters, Language
Planners, Copywriters, Copy Editors,
Literary Reviewers, Visual/Literary
Specialists, Language Teachers/
Trainers, Public Relations, Marketing,
Human Resources, Account Manager,
Strategic Planner, Media Planner, Brand
Manager, Marketing Communication
Practitioner, Communication Researcher,
Communication Consultant, Psychologist
(postgraduate studies required).

APK

BA

B7023Q

27

5
(60%+)

Technical Mathematics is not accepted, and where Mathematics is selected
as a major, the Faculty of Science's minimum requirements for Grade 12
Mathematics (4 (50%+)) for the module registration should be met.

Bachelor of Arts (3 years)

* The list of subjects that you can choose towards your BA degree can be found on the link below. Please note that the subjects
taken outside of the Faculty of Humanities must comply with the entry requirements of the respective home faculties.
https://www.uj.ac.za/faculties/humanities/newBA
BA with
specialisation
in LANGUAGE
PRACTICE

B7026Q

APS 27

5
(60%)

Not
applicable

Language practitioner (translator, text editor,
APK
interpreter), language planner, language manager,
lexicographer, terminologist, copy writer,
journalist, subtitler, plain language specialist.

BA with
specialisation
in POLITICS,
ECONOMICS AND
TECHNOLOGY

B7024Q

27 with
Mathematics

5
(60%+)

4
(50%+)

Apprentice data analyst, Researcher,
Account manager, Sales data management
and development, Business development,
Trainee analyst, Import/export administrator,
Financial operations, Information
management, Economic analysis,
Postgraduate study.

APK

COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
AND LEADERSHIP

B7015Q

27

5
(60%+)

Not
applicable

Municipalities, Government Departments
(e.g. Department of Social Development) and
Non-Government Organisations (focusing on
development work).

SWC

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

75

Minimum APS

English

CAREER

CAMPUS

Qualification Code
B7EX2Q

24-26
or
27

5 (60%+)
or
4 (50%+)

Social development and/or social changes
practitioner; researchers of social change;
activists who struggle and campaign for a
different world and system; foreign service,
enterprise and organisational development.

APK

BA with specialisation
in LINGUISTICS

B7EX3Q

24-26
or
27

5 (60%+)
or
4 (50%+)

Education ŌĆō teaching of English to
speakers of other languages; training;
research and administration; business
communication in the public sector; market
research; Interpreting and translating; and
academic career.

APK

BA with specialisation
in LINGUISTICS AND
LANGUAGE PRACTICE

B7EX4Q

24-26
or
27

5 (60%+)
or
4 (50%+)

Language practitioner (translator, text editor,
APK
interpreter), language planner, language manager,
lexicographer, terminologist, copy writer,
journalist, subtitler, plain language specialist.

BA with specialisation
in STRATEGIC
COMMUNICATION

B7EX5Q

24-26
or
27

5 (60%+)
or
4 (50%+)

Brand managers, social media strategists,
digital data analysts, online advertising
planners, digital marketing managers,
advertising and public relations specialists,
media planners, development officers,
communication officers, communication and
reputation managers, stakeholder managers,
corporate social responsibility specialists,
media relations managers, company
spokespersons to name a few.

PROGRAMME
BA with specialisation
in DEVELOPMENT
STUDIES

EXTENDED DEGREE PROGRAMMES
Bachelor of Arts (4 years)

APK

Note: In addition, interviews will be conducted with individual applicants.
Note: The APS score in English, determines the range of the overall APS score.
DIPLOMA PROGRAMME
Diploma (3 years)
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND
COMMUNICATION

D7002Q

25

5
(60%+)

A PR Practitioner is involved with an
organisationŌĆÖs communication strategy.

APB

24

4
(50%+)

A PR Practitioner is involved with an
organisationŌĆÖs communication strategy.

APB

EXTENDED DIPLOMA PROGRAMME
Extended Diploma (4 years)
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND
COMMUNICATION

76

D7EX2Q

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

NATIONAL CERTIFICATE VOCATIONAL (NCV) ADMISSION
Students with an NCV will only be considered for admission into the BA (Extended), Diploma in Public Relations and
Communication and Diploma in Public Relations and Communication (Extended).
’éĪ The minimum admission requirement for a diploma (Diploma: Public Relations and Communication) and degree
programme (BA Extended) is a National Certificate Vocational (NCV). Prospective students need to comply with the
facultyŌĆÖs minimum admission requirements including the Admission Points Score (APS) and the achievement ratings of
the 6 school subjects.
’éĪ Language of Teaching and Learning of the faculty, English, an achievement rating of 5 (80-100%) is required or 1st
Additional Language, an achievement rating of 5 (80-100%) is required. For all other fundamental and vocational
categories an achievement rating of 4 (70-79%) is required.
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

77

NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE FOR ADULTS (NASCA) ADMISSION:
Students with a NASCA certificate will only be considered for admission into the Diploma in Public Relations and
Communication and Diploma in Public Relations and Communication (Extended).
The minimum admission requirement for a Diploma in Public Relations and Communication and Diploma in Public
Relations in Communication (Extended) is a National Senior Certificate for Adults (NASCA). Prospective students need to
comply with the facultyŌĆÖs minimum admission requirements.
’éĪ To be awarded the NASCA a student has to pass 120 credits on NQF level 4 obtaining and achievement rating of at least
70% in four 30 credit subjects. The four subjects must be from:
1. A minimum of two compulsory subjects:
ŌĆō one language selected from the Communication Studies and Language and either Mathematics or Quantitative
Literacy
2. A minimum of two additional subjects selected from:
ŌĆō An additional official language or
ŌĆō Human and Social Science (Religion studies, History and Geography)
’éĪ

3

4
in any other subjects

3

3

4
in any other subjects

Subject 3

4

Subject 2

Language
of Teaching
and
Learning

Subject 1

Or Other Recognized
Language if another
Language taken in
Grade 12

Mathematics/
Mathematical Literacy

Minimum APS

NASCA suitable for ŌĆ”

PROGRAMME

Group B
Languages
(Must comply with NASCA minimum
requirements)

DIPLOMA IN PUBLIC RELATIONS AND COMMUNICATION
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND
COMMUNICATION*

Degree
Studies

APS 25

5

EXTENDED DIPLOMA IN PUBLIC RELATIONS AND COMMUNICATION
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND
COMMUNICATION*

Degree
Studies

APS 24

4

NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE FOR ADULTS (NASCA):
’éĪ
’éĪ
’éĪ
’éĪ

78

Students should be 18 years of age to qualify for a Bachelors Degree
They need to have a minimum of four subjects, carrying 30 credits each to 120 together.
It is called the certificate of competence
They should be admitted under the RPL process
UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

AMENDED SENIOR CERTIFICATE (SC(a)) ADMISSION:
Students with an SC(a) certificate will only be considered for admission into the BA Humanities (Extended), Diploma
in Public Relations and Communication and Diploma in Public Relations and Communication (Extended).
The minimum admission requirement for a (BA Extended) is an SC(a). Prospective students need to comply with the
facultyŌĆÖs minimum admission requirements.
’éĪ To be awarded the NASCA a student have passed six subjects in the SC(a).
’éĪ

5
or 4

4

4

4
in all of the other subjects

4

3

4
in all of the other subjects

3

3

4
in all of the other subjects

Subject 4

APS 24-26
or 27

Subject 3

Degree
Studies

Subject 2

Mathematics/
Mathematical Literacy

Minimum APS

Language
of Teaching
and
Learning

Subject 1

Or Other Recognized
Language if another
Language taken in
Grade 12

Languages
(Must comply with NASCA minimum
requirements)

NASCA suitable for ŌĆ”

PROGRAMME

Compulsory 1 Language and
Maths/Maths Literacy

BA EXTENDED DEGREE
BA EXTENDED DEGREE
PROGRAMMES*

DIPLOMA IN PUBLIC RELATIONS AND COMMUNICATION
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND
COMMUNICATION*

Degree
Studies

APS 25

5

EXTENDED DIPLOMA IN PUBLIC RELATIONS AND COMMUNICATION
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND
COMMUNICATION*

Degree
Studies

APS 24

4

AMENDED SENIOR CERTIFICATE (SC(a))
’éĪ
’éĪ
’éĪ
’éĪ

The students must be 21 years old
They must have the maximum of six subjects
They do not have Matric endorsement
The admission will be Senate discretionary admission and will require Senate approval

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

79

Law
80

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

The Faculty of Law is a proud faculty with a
reputation for academic excellence. Although the
Faculty is relatively small, its accredited research
output annually ranks among the highest in the
country. Faculty members are continually involved
in the writing, updating and editing of law books, in
addition to the publication of various articles in law
journals and papers at international conferences, for
which they are responsible. The Faculty also edits
the Journal of South African Law (TSAR), which has
been published since 1976.
The Faculty annually awards the degrees BA (Law),
BCom (Law), LLB, LLM and LLD. In addition to these
degrees, the Faculty has a strong division for continuing
education programmes that offers postgraduate
and undergraduate diplomas, certificates and short
programmes in specialised areas such as Tax Law,
International Tax, Drafting and Interpretation of
Contracts, Corporate Law, Criminal Justice and Forensic
Investigation, Compliance, Money Laundering Control,
Compliance Management, Board Governance, Legislative
Drafting, Labour Law and Paralegal Studies. The
Faculty of Law also has various research institutes and
centres that are involved in new legislation and legal
development. Students at the FacultyŌĆÖs three law clinics
on the Witwatersrand and Soweto offer free legal advice
to members of the public.
A law degree offers many exciting and challenging career
opportunities. The Faculty of LawŌĆÖs students are highly
sought after in the legal and commercial worlds, and
form part of a rich tradition and of a student body which
is proud of its ties with a Faculty of excellence.
Disclaimer: Due to limited space, fulfilling all the
mini┬Łmum admission requirements does not guarantee
acceptance into a programme.

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

81

CAREER

CAMPUS

Not accepted

Mathematical Literacy
4 (50%+)

APK

Legal Advisor,
Career in Commerce.

APK

4 (50%+)

Mathematics

Additional Language *

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

Legal Advisor, Career in
Public Administration.

Advocate, Attorney,
State Advocate, Legal
Advisor, Magistrate,
Public Prosecutor.

APK

DEGREE PROGRAMMES

3 (40%+)
4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

31 with
Mathematics OR
32 with
Mathematical
Literacy

5 (60%+)

31 with
Mathematics
ONLY

5 (60%+)

B4A01Q

BCOM (LAW)

31 with
Mathematics OR
32 with
Mathematical
Literacy

B4C01Q

BA (LAW)

B4L03Q

B Degree (3 years)

3 (40%+)

4 (50%+)

LLB

5 (60%+)

B Degree (4 years)

* Waived in the case of international students with a non-South African secondary school-leaverŌĆÖs certificate which does not
include a second language.

Take note: Meeting the Faculty's minimum requirements for a particular programme does not
necessarily guarantee admission to that programme due to space constraints.
Did you know?
’éĪ

’éĪ

’éĪ

The UJ Faculty of Law guarantees a unique first year experience to students; this includes taking
each first year law student to visit the lower, high and constitutional courts.
The UJ Faculty of Law enables every final year law student to complete the module Applied Legal
Studies, which includes clinical work with real clients. The Faculty has the only purpose-designed
and built law clinic in the country where students undertake applied clinical work.
After completing a 3 year BCom (Law) or BA (Law) degree students can register for an LLB
degree and will be able to complete this degree within a further 2 years, thus obtaining two
qualifications within 5 years.

UJ is the only African university admitted to the
highly respected consortium of 28 research-intensive
universities in the world ŌĆō Universitas 21
82

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

83

The Faculty of Science prides itself in its vibrant, dynamic and
diverse scientific community of scholars who are passionate
about continually renewing the learning experience of our
students, expanding the research profile of the University and
enhancing the academic, social and economic impact of the
FacultyŌĆÖs teaching and research programmes.
Innovative education, internationally competitive research, as well
as socially aware community development, are integrated into a
dynamic synergy. We provide outstanding service to our students
with regards to teaching and learning programmes, state-of-the-art
facilities, in-service training and an environment that is conducive
to life-long learning. Four year programmes are offered as
alternative access routes to students who require them. Academic
support and mentorship programmes are also provided to students
who need additional guidance and assistance. Our students are in
great demand in the business sector and contribute significantly to
the relevant industries.

Jurik Peter / Shutterstock.com

The Faculty is an active player in a wider network of national and
international partnerships and collaborations. Joint Postgraduate
degrees with many European Universities through the Erasmus
Mundus programme of the Netherlands and with Tohoku University
in Japan serve as examples. With regard to undergraduate
programmes, we are proud that UJ holds accreditation from the
BCS: The Chartered Institute for IT (in the United Kingdom), for our
BSc degree programmes in Information Technology. Our Actuarial
Science programme is also accredited by the Actuarial Society
of South Africa (ASSA). In 2020 we also obtained international
accreditation for our Food Science programmes.
Our partnerships with prestigious institutions are testimony to
the high esteem that our staff, students and programmes enjoy in
the national and international community. Each year, several staff
members and students receive national and international acclaim for
research and other academic achievements on Postgraduate level.
The Faculty is particularly proud that it has unique state-of-the-art
analytical research facilities, e.g. Spectrum, which house multi-user
analytical instrumentation. The Faculty of Science is fully committed to
having a positive and noteworthy impact on the global community in
terms of research, innovation, teaching and service.
Extended programmes will only consider new first-time entering
candidates for admission, these are candidates with no previous
studies from a Higher Education Institution.

Disclaimer: Due to limited space,
fulfilling all the mini┬Łmum admission
requirements does not guarantee
acceptance into a programme.
84

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Science

2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

85

CAREER

CAMPUS

Physical Science
Not
applicable

Systems Analyst, Network Manager,
Programmer, Web Developer, Web Master,
Database Administrator, Software Engineer,
Computer Graphics Designer, Information
Technology Manager, Researcher.

APK

Not
applicable

PLEASE NOTE: Technical
Mathematics and
Technical Science are
not accepted for Degree
programmes in the
Faculty of Science.

Systems Analyst, Network Manager,
Programmer, Web Developer, Web Master,
Database Administrator, Software Engineer,
Computer Graphics Designer, Information
Technology Manager, Researcher.

APK

Not
applicable

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification
Code

PROGRAMME

We are proud to be the first University in Africa to have received
accreditation from the BCS: Chartered Institute for IT, for our
BSc IT Honours programme which one can pursue upon completion
of our BSc Information Technology degree.

Security Architect, Knowledge Manager,
Cyber Crime Investigator, All-Source Analyst,
IT Investment/Portfolio Manager,
Systems Analyst, Network Manager,
Programmer, Web Developer, Web Master,
Database Administrator, Software Engineer,
Computer Graphics Designer, Information
Technology Manager, Researcher.

APK

DEGREE PROGRAMMES

86

6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
7 (80%+)

5 (60%+)

34

5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

COMPUTER SCIENCE
AND INFORMATICS
specialising in AI
(Artificial Intelligence)

B2I01Q

COMPUTER SCIENCE
AND INFORMATICS

30

B2I02Q

INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY

B2I04Q

Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (3 years)

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAREER

CAMPUS
APK

4 (50%+)

Biologist, Botanist, Ecologist,
Nature Conservation Scientist,
Forensic Scientist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Biologist, Nature Conservationist,
Environmentalist, Ethno-Botanist,
Ecologist, Entomologist, Pathologist,
Parasitologist, Geneticist, Food
Technologist, Zoologist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Zoologist, Biochemist, Nature
Conservationist, Environmentalist,
Ecologist, Entomologist, Pathologist,
Geneticist, Food Technologist

APK

4 (50%+)

Zoologist, Chemical Technologist
and Researcher.

APK

4 (50%+)

Geo-Zoologist, Population Geneticist,
Environmental Ecologist and
Specialist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Geo-Zoologist, Population Geneticist,
Environmental Ecologist and
Specialist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Zoologist, Forensic Pathologist,
Geneticist, Parasitologist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Life Science
4 (50%+)

Analyst, Technologist or Researcher
at Sasol, Eskom, Pharmaceutical
Companies, Mining Companies or
in Health Industry.

Biochemist, Researcher, Forensic
Analyst, Biotechnologist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Physical Science **

Mathematics *

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME
(Major subject
combination***)

PLEASE NOTE: Technical
Mathematics and
Technical Science are
not accepted for Degree
programmes in the
Faculty of Science.

Psychologist, Forensic
Pathologist, Researcher.

APK

4 (50%+)/
5 (60%+)**
4 (50%+)/
5(60%+)**
4 (50%+)/
5 (60%+)**
4 (50%+)/
5 (60%+)**
4 (50%+)/
5 (60%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)/
5 (60%+)**
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)/
5 (60%+)**
4 (50%+)/
5 (60%+)**

5 (60%+)/
6 (70%+)*
6 (70%+)
5 (60%+)/
6 (70%+)*
5 (60%+)/
6 (70%+)*
6 (70%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)/
6 (70%+)*
5 (60%+)/
6 (70%+)*
5 (60%+)/
6 (70%+)*
5 (60%+)/
6 (70%+) *

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

PHYSIOLOGY AND
PSYCHOLOGY

B2L10Q

PHYSIOLOGY AND
BIOCHEMISTRY

B2L11Q

ZOOLOGY AND
PHYSIOLOGY

B2L12Q

ZOOLOGY AND
GEOGRAPHY

B2L13Q

ZOOLOGY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT

B2L14Q

ZOOLOGY AND
CHEMISTRY

30

B2L15Q

ZOOLOGY AND
BIOCHEMISTRY

30

B2L16Q

BOTANY AND
ZOOLOGY

30

B2L17Q

BOTANY AND
CHEMISTRY

30

B2L18Q

BIOCHEMISTRY
AND BOTANY

B2L26Q

Bachelor of Science in Life and Environmental Sciences (3 years)

All minimum entrance requirements for the Faculty of Science are subject to change. Please check the UJ website ŌĆō www.uj.ac.za/Apply
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

87

CAMPUS

CAREER

APK

4 (50%+)

Life Science
4 (50%+)

Location Analyst, Town Planner,
Geo-Information Specialist,
Environmental Rehabilitation
Manager, Geomorphologist.
Geographer, Geologist, Mineralogist,
Regional Planner, Site Analyst,
GIS Specialist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Physical Science **
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+) /
5 (60%+)**
4 (50%+) /
5 (60%+)**

Mathematics *
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

English
5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

30

5 (60%+)

Minimum APS

Qualification Code
B2L20Q

GEOLOGY AND
GEOGRAPHY

B2L24Q

GEOLOGY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT

30

B2L25Q

PROGRAMME
(Major subject
combination***)
GEOGRAPHY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT

PLEASE NOTE: Technical
Mathematics and
Technical Science are
not accepted for Degree
programmes in the
Faculty of Science.

Geographer, Geologist, Mineralogist,
Regional Planner, Site Analyst,
Geographical Information Specialist.

APK

*

A minimum rating of 6 for Mathematics if Mathematics 1A is included in the programme.
A minimum rating of 5 for Mathematics if Mathematics 1C is included in the programme.
** A minimum rating of 5 for Physical Science if Chemistry 1A and/or Physics 1A/S1 are included in the programme.
A minimum rating of 4 for Physical Science if Chemistry 1C and/or Physics G1/L1 and/or Biology and/or Geology are
included in the programme.
*** You are applying for the degree programme as indicated in the heading of the table. When applying, choose the code
listed in the table linked to the two subjects you want to major in. The Faculty reserves the right not to offer all major
combinations in a given year depending on student numbers, industry needs and capacity.
All minimum entrance requirements for the Faculty of Science are subject to change. Please check the UJ website ŌĆō www.uj.ac.za/Apply
88

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS

CAREER

Physical Science **

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME
(Major subject
combination***)

PLEASE NOTE: Technical
Mathematics and
Technical Science are
not accepted for Degree
programmes in the
Faculty of Science.

4 (50%+)/
5(60%+)**

Computer Programmer, Systems Analyst,
Mathematical Modulator.

APK

4 (50%+)/ 4 (50%+)/ 5
5(60%+)**
(60%+)**

Mathematician, Data Compiler,
Data Interpreter, Biometrician.

APK

Mathematical Modulator,
Mathematical Adviser.

APK

5 (60%+)**

Software Specialist in high-tech industry,
Designer of medical monitors.

APK

Not
applicable

Computer Programmer, System Analyst,
Data Compiler and Analyst.

APK

Not
applicable

Computer Programmer, Systems Analyst,
Mathematical Advisor.

APK

Not
applicable

Computer Programmer, Systems Analyst.

APK

Not
applicable

Financial Analyst, Economist.

APK

4 (50%+)**

Mathematician, Teacher, Researcher,
Psychologist.

APK

Not
applicable

6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
7 (80%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

33

5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

MATHEMATICS AND
MATHEMATICAL
STATISTICS (WITH
FINANCIAL ORIENTATION)

B2M40Q

MATHEMATICS AND
PSYCHOLOGY

B2M41Q

MATHEMATICS AND
MATHEMATICAL
STATISTICS

B2M42Q

MATHEMATICS AND
INFORMATICS

B2M43Q

MATHEMATICS AND
COMPUTER SCIENCE

B2M44Q

MATHEMATICAL
STATISTICS AND
COMPUTER SCIENCE

33

B2M45Q

COMPUTATIONAL
SCIENCE

31

B2M46Q

APPLIED MATHEMATICS
AND
MATHEMATICS

31

B2M47Q

APPLIED MATHEMATICS
AND MATHEMATICAL
STATISTICS

31

B2M54Q

APPLIED MATHEMATICS
AND
COMPUTER SCIENCE

B2M55Q

Bachelor of Science in Mathematical Sciences (3 years)

Mathematician, Data Interpreter, Research
Statistician, Mathematical Advisor.

APK

All minimum entrance requirements for the Faculty of Science are subject to change. Please check the UJ website ŌĆō www.uj.ac.za/Apply
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

89

CAMPUS
APK

Not
applicable

CAREER

Physical Science **
Not
applicable

Econometrist, Investment Economist,
Biometricist, Economic Journalist.

Econometrist, Investment Economist,
Consultant.

APK

Not
applicable

Mathematics
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
7 (80%+)

English
5 (60%+)

33

5 (60%+)

33

5 (60%+)

Minimum APS

Qualification Code
B2M56Q

ACTUARIAL
SCIENCE

B2M57Q

MATHEMATICS AND
ECONOMICS (WITH
FINANCIAL ORIENTATION)

33

B2M52Q

PROGRAMME
(Major subject
combination***)
MATHEMATICAL
STATISTICS AND
ECONOMICS (WITH
FINANCIAL ORIENTATION)

PLEASE NOTE: Technical
Mathematics and
Technical Science are
not accepted for Degree
programmes in the
Faculty of Science.

Actuary, Actuarial Analyst, Quantitative
Analyst, Risk Manager, Investment Manager,
Credit Ratings Analyst, Statistician, Academic.

APK

The UJ actuarial science degree offers exemption recommendations for the Actuarial Society of South Africa (ASSA)
subjects A111, A112, A113, A211, A212 and A213.

Life Science

CAREER

CAMPUS

4 (50%+)

Scientist in the field of food and
water, biomedical, biotechnological
and agricultural sectors.

APK

Not
applicable

Chemistry, Researcher, Technologist,
Problem Solver.

APK

Not
applicable

Physicist, Researcher, Chemistry
Technologist, Forensic Researcher.

APK

4 (50%+)

Physical Science **

Mathematics*

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME
(Major subject
combination***)

** A minimum rating of 5 for Physical Science if Chemistry 1A and/or Physics 1A is included in the programme.
A minimum rating of 4 for Physical Science if Chemistry 1C and/or Physics G1 are included in the programme.

Geochemist, Geologist, Forensic
Scientist, Exploration Expert.

APK

90

5 (60%+)**
5 (60%+)**
5 (60%+)**
4 (50%+) /
5 (60%+)*

6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)

5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

GEOLOGY AND
CHEMISTRY

B2P70Q

CHEMISTRY AND
PHYSICS

B2P71Q

CHEMISTRY AND
MATHEMATICS

31

B2P72Q

BIOCHEMISTRY AND
CHEMISTRY

B2P81Q

Bachelor of Science in Physical Sciences (3 years)

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS

CAREER

Life Science
Not
Not
Not
Not
applicable applicable applicable applicable

Physical Science **
4 (50%+) / 4 (50%+) /
5 (60%+)** 5 (60%+)**
5 (60%+)** 5 (60%+)**

Mathematics *
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)
6 (70%+)

English
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

31

5 (60%+)

Minimum APS

Qualification Code
B2P82Q

PHYSICS AND
MATHEMATICS

B2P83Q

PHYSICS AND
APPLIED MATHEMATICS

31

B2P77Q

GEOLOGY AND
PHYSICS

31

B2P78Q

PROGRAMME
(Major subject
combination***)
GEOLOGY AND
MATHEMATICS

PLEASE NOTE: Technical
Mathematics and
Technical Science are
not accepted for Degree
programmes in the
Faculty of Science.

Geomathematician, Geologist,
Problem Analyst.

APK

Physicist, Geophysicist,
Geohydrologist, Geologist.

APK

Problem Solver, Researcher in
Astronomy and Energy Sources.

APK

Problem Solver, Researcher in
Astronomy and Energy Sources.

APK

*

A minimum rating of 5 for Mathematics if Mathematics 1A is included in the programme.
A minimum rating of 4 for Mathematics if Mathematics 1C is included in the programme.
** A minimum rating of 5 for Physical Science if Chemistry 1A and/or Physics 1A/1S are included in the programme.
A minimum rating of 4 for Physical Science if Geology is included in the programme.
EXTENDED DEGREE PROGRAMMES

APK

4 (50%+)

Analyst, Technologist, or Researcher
at Sasol, Eskom, Pharmaceutical
Companies, Mining Companies or in
the Health Industry.

APK

4 (50%+)

Biologist, Botanist, Ecologist,
Nature Conservation Scientist,
Forensic Scientist.

APK

Biologist, Nature Conservationist,
Environmentalist, Ethno-Botanist,
Ecologist, Entomologist, Pathologist,
Parasitologist, Geneticist, Food
Technologist, Zoologist.

APK

Not applicable

Systems Analyst, Network Manager,
Programmer, Web Developer, Web
Master, Database Administrator,
Software Engineer, Computer
Graphics Designer, Information
Technology Manager, Researcher.

4 (50%+)

Not applicable

5 (60%+)

26

4 (50%+)

COMPUTER SCIENCE
AND INFORMATICS

B2E01Q

Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (Extended)

4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

BOTANY AND
ZOOLOGY

B2E10Q

BOTANY AND
CHEMISTRY

26

B2E11Q

BIOCHEMISTRY AND
BOTANY

B2E12Q

Bachelor of Science in Life and Environmental Sciences (Extended)

All minimum entrance requirements for the Faculty of Science are subject to change. Please check the UJ website ŌĆō www.uj.ac.za/Apply
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

91

CAMPUS

CAREER

Life Science

Physical Science **

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME
(Major subject
combination***)

PLEASE NOTE: Technical
Mathematics and
Technical Science are
not accepted for Degree
programmes in the
Faculty of Science.

4 (50%+)

Location Analyst, Town Planner,
Geo-Information Specialist,
Environmental Rehabilitation
Manager, Geomorphologist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Biochemist, Researcher, Forensic
Analyst, Biotechnologist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Psychologist, Forensic
Pathologist, Researcher.

APK

4 (50%+)

Zoologist, Biochemist, Nature
Conservationist, Environmentalist,
Ecologist, Entomologist, Pathologist,
Geneticist, Food Technologist.

APK

4 (50%+)

Zoologist, Chemical
Technologist And Researcher.

APK

4 (50%+)

Geo-Zoologist, Population
Geneticist, Environmental Ecologist
and Specialist.

APK

4 (50%+)

4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

ZOOLOGY
AND
GEOGRAPHY

B2E13Q

ZOOLOGY
AND
ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT

B2E14Q

ZOOLOGY
AND
CHEMISTRY

B2E22Q

ZOOLOGY
AND
BIOCHEMISTRY

26

B2E17Q

PHYSIOLOGY
AND
PSYCHOLOGY

26

B2E18Q

PHYSIOLOGY
AND
BIOCHEMISTRY

26

B2E19Q

GEOGRAPHY
AND
ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT

B2E20Q

Bachelor of Science in Life and Environmental Sciences (Extended)

Geo-Zoologist, Population
Geneticist, Environmental Ecologist
and Specialist.

APK

Cairncrossite is a new mineral discovered in 2013,
and was named after Professor Bruce Cairncross.
Bruce Cairncross (Professor in Geology at UJ) is a sedimentologist and stratigrapher, specialising in
terrestrial clastic depositional systems and the origin and formation of southern African coal deposits.

All minimum entrance requirements for the Faculty of Science are subject to change. Please check the UJ website ŌĆō www.uj.ac.za/Apply
92

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Physical Science **

CAREER

CAMPUS

4 (50%+)**

Computer Programmer,
Systems Analyst,
Mathematical Modulator.

APK

Not
applicable

Mathematician, Data compiler,
Data Interpreter, Biometrician.

APK

4 (50%+)**

Mathematical Modulator,
Mathematical adviser.

APK

Not
applicable

Computer Programmer, Systems Analyst,
Data Compiler and Analyst.

APK

Not
applicable

Computer Programmer, Systems Analyst,
Mathematical Advisor.

APK

Not
applicable

Computer Programmer,
Systems Analyst.

APK

Not
applicable

Financial Analyst, Economist.

APK

Not
applicable

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME
(Major subject
combination***)

PLEASE NOTE: Technical
Mathematics and
Technical Science are
not accepted for Degree
programmes in the
Faculty of Science.

Mathematician, Teacher,
Researcher, Psychologist.

APK

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

MATHEMATICS
AND
PSYCHOLOGY

B2E40Q

MATHEMATICS
AND
MATHEMATICAL
STATISTICS

B2E41Q

MATHEMATICS
AND
INFORMATICS

B2E42Q

MATHEMATICS
AND
COMPUTER SCIENCE

B2E43Q

MATHEMATICAL
STATISTICS
AND
COMPUTER SCIENCE

26

B2E44Q

APPLIED MATHEMATICS
AND
MATHEMATICS

26

B2E45Q

APPLIED MATHEMATICS
AND MATHEMATICAL
STATISTICS

26

B2E46Q

APPLIED MATHEMATICS
AND
COMPUTER SCIENCE

B2E49Q

Bachelor of Science in Mathematical Sciences (Extended)

UJ staff in the Physics Department are playing a part in
ground-breaking research using The Large Hadron Collider.
All minimum entrance requirements for the Faculty of Science are subject to change. Please check the UJ website ŌĆō www.uj.ac.za/Apply
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

93

Life Science

CAREER

CAMPUS

4 (50%+)

Scientist in the field of food and water,
and biomedical, biotechnological and
agricultural sectors.

APK

Not
applicable

Chemistry, Researcher, Technologist,
Problem Solver.

APK

Not
applicable

Physicist, Researcher, Chemistry
Technologist, Forensic Researcher.

APK

Not
applicable

Problem Solver, Researcher in
Astronomy and Energy Sources.

APK

Not
applicable

Physical Science **

Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME
(Major subject
combination***)

PLEASE NOTE: Technical
Mathematics and
Technical Science are
not accepted for Degree
programmes in the
Faculty of Science.

Problem Solver, Researcher in
Astronomy and Energy Sources.

APK

4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**
4 (50%+)**

5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)
5 (60%+)

4 (50%+)
4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

26

4 (50%+)

PHYSICS AND
MATHEMATICS

B2E70Q

PHYSICS AND
APPLIED MATHEMATICS

B2E71Q

CHEMISTRY AND
PHYSICS

26

B2E72Q

CHEMISTRY AND
MATHEMATICS

26

B2E73Q

BIOCHEMISTRY AND
CHEMISTRY

B2E74Q

Bachelor of Science in Physical Sciences (Extended)

** A minimum rating of 4 for Physical Science is required if Chemistry and/or Physics are included in the programme.
All minimum entrance requirements for the Faculty of Science are subject to change. Please check the UJ website ŌĆō www.uj.ac.za/Apply

94

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

CAMPUS

CAREER

Life Science

Physical Science

Mathematics /
Technical Mathematics

English

Minimum APS

Qualification Code

PROGRAMME

PLEASE NOTE:
Technical Mathematics
is accepted for the
Diploma programmes in
the Faculty of Science.
Technical Science is
NOT accepted.

DIPLOMA PROGRAMMES

Not
applicable

Analytical Chemists analyse raw
materials and final products to
gauge their quality levels.

DFC

3 (40%+)

Biotechnologists manipulate living
cells for application in the baking,
brewing, chemical, agricultural and
pharmaceutical fields.

DFC

3 (40%+)

4 (50%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)

3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)
3 (40%+)

4 (50%+)

22

4 (50%+)

23

4 (50%+)

FOOD
TECHNOLOGY

D2ACXQ

BIOTECHNOLOGY

22

D2BTEQ

ANALYTICAL
CHEMISTRY

D2FTEQ

Diploma (Extended)

Food Technologists research the
production, processing, preservation,
packing and distribution of food.

DFC

All minimum entrance requirements for the Faculty of Science are subject to change. Please check the UJ website ŌĆō www.uj.ac.za/Apply
2026 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS

95

NATIONAL CERTIFICATE VOCATIONAL (NCV) ADMISSION
For admission to a BSc degree (4 years) the applicant must have:
’éĪ A NCV (level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.
’éĪ Achieved a minimum of 70% for 5 of the 7 subjects ŌĆō fundamental and vocational categories.
’éĪ Passed English as Language of Teaching and Learning / First Additional Language as fundamental component with a
minimum of 70%.
’éĪ Passed Mathematics and Physical Sciences as Fundamental Components with a minimum score of 70%.
For admission to a National Diploma (4 years) the applicant must have:
’éĪ A NCV (level 4) issued by the Council for General and Further Education and Training.
’éĪ Achieved a minimum of 60% for 6 of the 7 subjects ŌĆō fundamental and vocational categories.
’éĪ Passed English as Language of Teaching and Learning/First Additional Language as fundamental component with a
minimum of 70%.
’éĪ Passed Mathematics and Physical Sciences as Fundamental Components with a minimum score of 60%.

NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE FOR ADULTS (NASCA) ADMISSION
The admission requirements for applicants holding the National Senior Certificate for Adults (NASCA) or the
Amended Senior Certificate (SC(a)) for qualifications in the Faculty of Science.

Applications will be dealt with by the Faculty Teaching and Learning Committee for recommendation to the Faculty Board.
Faculty Board will then refer the approved applications to Senate for Senate Discretionary approval.

UJ's Department of Botany and Plant Biotechnology,
DNA Barcoded the Flora of the Kruger National Park.
96

UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG

Design and layout: UJ Graphic Studio

For both the NASCA and SC(a) for admission to a programme in the Faculty of Science the Senate Discretionary Approval
process will be followed.

THE FUTURE IS NOT SOME
PLACE WE ARE GOING BUT
ONE WE ARE CREATING.

Creating Tomorrow.

Reasons for
studying at UJ
UJ offers not only a special programme called the
First Year Experience to help orientate students
throughout the first year but we also offer a Senior
Student Experience that gears students towards
the workplace!

UJ's 2023/2024 GLOBAL
UNIVERSITY RANKINGS

Shanghai Ranking (ARWU)
’éĪ ARWU World University Rankings:
401-500 in the world
#3 in South Africa and #4 in Africa
Quacquarelli Symonds (QS)
’éĪ QS World University Rankings:
#312 in the world, in the Top 1%
#4 in South Africa and Africa
Times Higher Education (THE)
’éĪ THE World University Rankings:
401-500 in the world
#4 in South Africa and Africa
’éĪ THE Impact Rankings:
#36 in the world,
#1 in South Africa and Africa
’éĪ THE Young University Rankings:
#60 among young universities
#1 in South Africa and Africa
’éĪ THE Sub-Saharan Africa University Rankings:
#2 among universities in the sub-Saharan Africa region,
#2 in South Africa
US News & World ReportŌĆÖs Best Global Universities
Rankings (BGUR)
’éĪ BGUR World University Rankings:
#357 in the world,
#4 in South Africa and
#9 in Africa
Center for World University Rankings (CWUR)
’éĪ CWUR World University Rankings:
624 in the world, in the Top 3%
#6 in South Africa and #7 in Africa
University Ranking by Academic Performance (URAP)
’éĪ URAP World University Rankings:
647 in the world
#5 in South Africa and #8 in Africa

98

Grab the
opportunity to
participate in a
variety of sports
and train alongside
Olympians and
Paralympians on
state-of-the-art
pitches, tracks and
fields, or just keep
fit by joining one of
the gyms on each of
our 4 campuses.

Be part of a young,
vibrant and agile
university that reflects
and adapts easily to our
countryŌĆÖs aspirations,
while maintaining a
global relevance through
numerous international
partnerships.

178 Internationally respected
and accepted qualifications.

w w w.uj.ac.za

Join a university that cares enough to have raised over
R300 million since the start of 2016 in order to support of the
Missing Middle Campaign. UJ also ensures that more than
6 000 needy students have two healthy meals per day.

Study in the vibrant City of Gold ŌĆō the economic
hub of South Africa. Join a vibrant, cosmopolitan,
progressive group of students and academics on
their way to re-imagining the future!

UJ offers an amazing on-campus experience
whether you live in one of UJŌĆÖs residences, belong
to a dayhouse or whether you just want to
socialise at the Student Centres on all campuses.

We ensure the health, safety and
security of all our students through
our own on-campus health services
and UJ Protection Services.

Did you know
that during the
first five years
of UJŌĆÖs existence
it doubled
its targeted
research output
and to this day,
continues to
break records!

Please bear in mind that UJ (and most other universities for that matter) only have a
certain number of spaces available for first-year applicants and only the best learners will
be selected to attend the University. Ensure that you apply on time in your Grade 12 year.
Applications open in April and close on 31 October 2025.

99

www.uj.ac.za
+27 87 240 6854

Anton Vierietin / Shutterstock.com

mylife@uj.ac.za

